
[Transcriber's Note: Bold text is surrounded by =equal signs= and italic
text is surrounded by _underscores_.]



Our Little Egyptian Cousin




THE Little Cousin Series

(TRADE MARK)

    Each volume illustrated with six or more full-page plates in
    tint. Cloth, 12mo, with decorative cover,
    per volume, 60 cents


LIST OF TITLES

BY MARY HAZELTON WADE

(unless otherwise indicated)

    =Our Little African Cousin=
    =Our Little Alaskan Cousin=
        By Mary F. Nixon-Roulet
    =Our Little Arabian Cousin=
        By Blanche McManus
    =Our Little Armenian Cousin=
    =Our Little Australian Cousin=
        By Mary F. Nixon-Roulet
    =Our Little Brazilian Cousin=
        By Mary F. Nixon-Roulet
    =Our Little Brown Cousin=
    =Our Little Canadian Cousin=
        By Elizabeth R. MacDonald
    =Our Little Chinese Cousin=
        By Isaac Taylor Headland
    =Our Little Cuban Cousin=
    =Our Little Dutch Cousin=
        By Blanche McManus
    =Our Little Egyptian Cousin=
        By Blanche McManus
    =Our Little English Cousin=
        By Blanche McManus
    =Our Little Eskimo Cousin=
    =Our Little French Cousin=
        By Blanche McManus
    =Our Little German Cousin=
    =Our Little Greek Cousin=
        By Mary F. Nixon-Roulet
    =Our Little Hawaiian Cousin=
    =Our Little Hindu Cousin=
        By Blanche McManus
    =Our Little Hungarian Cousin=
        By Mary F. Nixon-Roulet
    =Our Little Indian Cousin=
    =Our Little Irish Cousin=
    =Our Little Italian Cousin=
    =Our Little Japanese Cousin=
    =Our Little Jewish Cousin=
    =Our Little Korean Cousin=
        By H. Lee M. Pike
    =Our Little Mexican Cousin=
        By Edward C. Butler
    =Our Little Norwegian Cousin=
    =Our Little Panama Cousin=
        By H. Lee M. Pike
    =Our Little Persian Cousin=
        By E. C. Shedd
    =Our Little Philippine Cousin=
    =Our Little Porto Rican Cousin=
    =Our Little Russian Cousin=
    =Our Little Scotch Cousin=
        By Blanche McManus
    =Our Little Siamese Cousin=
    =Our Little Spanish Cousin=
        By Mary F. Nixon-Roulet
    =Our Little Swedish Cousin=
        By Claire M. Coburn
    =Our Little Swiss Cousin=
    =Our Little Turkish Cousin=


    L. C. PAGE & COMPANY
    New England Building,    Boston, Mass.

[Illustration: NABUL AND HIS DONKEY.  (_See page 2_)]




NABUL

Our Little Egyptian Cousin

    By
    Blanche McManus

    _Author of "Our Little English Cousin," "Our
    Little Arabian Cousin," "Our Little
    Dutch Cousin," etc._

    _Illustrated by_
    The Author

[Illustration]

    Boston
    L. C. Page & Company
    _MDCCCCVIII_




    _Copyright, 1908_
    BY L. C. PAGE & COMPANY

    (INCORPORATED)

    _Entered at Stationers' Hall, London_

    _All rights reserved_

    First Impression, July, 1908
    Second Impression, October, 1909




Preface


OUR little Egyptian cousins are the descendants of one of the most
ancient races on earth, but they are very wide-awake to-day in more
ways than one.

Little Egyptian boys and girls are as keen and bright as their cousins
of any land, and though their religion is that of Mohammed, the same as
of our little Arabian cousins, their principles are most upright and
correct.

Of recent years many, many thousands of little American and English
cousins have visited the banks of the Nile, and frequent intercourse
with strangers has given our little Egyptian cousins a very broad and
intelligent outlook on life.

They have learned scraps of English, and indeed French and German too,
almost unconsciously, and if the donkey boys of Cairo and the other
great tourist resorts are keen little fellows in their efforts to get
coins from strangers, they are equally desirous of pleasing and give
good value for their money.

The Egyptians of to-day are a cleanly, progressive people, and if
they prefer donkey or camel back in preference to automobiles and
railways as a means of travel it is because their country is not as yet
developed to its full possibilities.

Some day things will be different, for the railway on land, steamboats
on the Nile, and electric cars running from Cairo to the Great Pyramids
are bound to somewhat change things.

It is safe to say, however, that for long years to come little American
cousins visiting Egypt will look upon riding donkeys and camels and
sailing upon the queer dahabeahs on the Nile as one of the pleasantest
recollections of this old historic land. If, too, they can make such
warm friends of their little Egyptian cousins as did George and his
uncle Ben the people of modern Egypt will remain ever in their hearts
as the kindest, most likable of folk.

    ALEXANDRIA, _January, 1908_.




Contents



    CHAPTER                                PAGE
      I. NABUL AND HIS LITTLE WHITE DONKEY    1
     II. A DONKEY RIDE AROUND CAIRO          27
    III. THE BOYS CLIMB THE PYRAMIDS         51
     IV. BEN HASSAN'S DAHABEAH               71
      V. AN EGYPTIAN FARM                   102




List of Illustrations


                                                        PAGE
    NABUL AND HIS DONKEY (_See page_ 2)        _Frontispiece_
    NABUL WITH HIS MOTHER AND SISTERS                     12
    AT THE BAZAAR                                         33
    AT THE PYRAMIDS                                       68
    THE DAHABEAH                                          76
    "A LAZY-LOOKING OLD CAMEL WAS SLOWLY
        TURNING A GREAT CREAKING WOODEN WHEEL"           117

[Illustration: _Map of_ EGYPT

_Showing Places Mentioned in "OUR LITTLE EGYPTIAN COUSIN"_]




Our Little Egyptian Cousin




CHAPTER I

NABUL AND HIS LITTLE WHITE DONKEY


"HI-YAH! Hi-yah! Who will ride on Nabul's little donkey,--the swiftest
donkey in all the great city of Cairo?" called out a shrill, clear
voice. Through the crowded street there clattered a little white donkey
and on his back was a small boy, laughing merrily and waving a short
stick in one hand.

"Oh, look to thy face! Oh, look to thy heels! Oh, make way for me, good
people!" cried the little boy as he guided his donkey skilfully through
the crowd by taps with his heels.

As the donkey pushed his way along, everybody laughed good-naturedly,
and stepped aside.

"'Tis only that imp of mischief, Nabul, and his donkey," they would say
as they made way for the little rider, for everybody knew and liked
little Nabul Ben Hassan, the youngest donkey boy in Cairo.

Presently the donkey trotted around a corner and nearly upset a little
table of cakes, beside which sat an old man fast asleep. "Plague on
thee, dost thou not yet know how to drive a donkey?" grumbled the old
fellow, who woke up just in time to save his cakes.

"Nay, father, 'tis thou who knowst not how to sell cakes, for thou
wast fast asleep, while the flies ate the sugar from thy cakes without
paying for it," answered Nabul. This made the passers-by laugh, for
Nabul was a great favourite in the quarter, and the old cake-seller was
not, for sometimes he tried to cheat them when they came to buy his
round, brown cakes covered all over with honey.

Nabul now hurried on the faster. He was anxious to reach the square
where all the donkey boys of the city were to be found at noon, for he
had a great piece of news to tell his chum Abdal, who would be sure to
be there.

Nabul had just come from the big hotel in the main street where, along
with all the other donkey boys, he liked to trot his little donkey up
and down the street in front of the veranda, or terrace, of the hotel,
hoping to attract the attention of those strange-speaking people who
came from over the seas to see his country and to ride on the little
Egyptian donkeys.

Indeed, truth to tell, the donkey boys thought the strangers came to
Egypt just for that purpose, and out of compliment to the travellers,
and with an eye to business, many of the boys named their donkeys after
the great people of the various countries. There was a "King Edward"
and a "Chamberlain" and a "Lord Cromer," to please the English, and
another donkey was named after the French President "Fallieres," while
Nabul himself called his "Teddy,"--you all know who that is,--and he
usually called him "Teddy Pasha," because Pasha means, in his language,
a great man.

Nabul already knew about America, that big country so far away, for
did he not have an uncle who had been a "donkey boy" in "The Streets
of Cairo" at the great Chicago Exposition, and was even now at a place
called Coney Island? This uncle wrote him letters full of tales of
wonderful doings, and did he not know also two of the oldest donkey
boys now in Cairo who had been to the big Exposition in America?

Little Nabul never tired of listening to the marvellous tales they
brought back with them, and in this way he came to know how to tell the
Americans from the other strangers who visited Cairo, as he watched
them sitting on the broad terrace of the hotel.

It was the Americans who laughed and joked the most with the little
donkey boys. Often, too, if they happened to be in a very good humour,
they would throw them _milliemes_, the smallest of Egyptian coins, and
then such a scramble as went on among the boys down in the street as
each tried to get a coin. This would only make the visitors laugh the
more, when they would scatter more coins.

"What a country must be that from whence these strangers come," thought
Nabul to himself, "that one can throw away money like that! How I
should like to go there! Perhaps we will some day, Teddy Pasha. I won't
go without thee," he went on, tapping the little donkey gently with
his heels, as he sat proudly on his back. He was turning all this over
in his mind to-day as he rode to find his cousin Abdal, who was most
probably taking his midday rest with the other donkey boys.

When he reached the square it was noon. Here, in the shade of the
locust and mimosa trees which bordered the square, stood dozens of
donkeys of all sizes and colours,--white and brown and black and gray
donkeys,--with bright-coloured saddles and blankets, and on their
bridles and around their necks were strings of little jingling bells.

There are a great many donkeys in Egypt, for almost everybody uses a
donkey on which to get about, and for that reason there are so many
donkey boys who make a business of hiring out their clever little
animals.

Some of the donkeys were fast asleep,--that is, they had their eyes
tight shut, but one can never tell when a donkey is shamming; others
were looking very wise out of the corners of their eyes, but it may
have been that they were only planning how to dodge their work, or
wondering if they could rub their saddles off against the tree-trunks,
and thus give their young masters a little trouble. No one can possibly
guess what a donkey is thinking about, though it is safe to say that
Egyptian donkeys, like donkeys the world over, are generally up to
mischief.

Meanwhile the young owners of the donkeys were stretched out on the
ground in the shade. Some were playing a game like knuckle-bones;
others were eating their lunch of honey cakes and dates, but all were
chattering away at the top of their voices like so many magpies.

"Ho, here comes the little one!" they all cried out as Nabul rode up,
sliding off his donkey and dropping down beside a boy a little older
than himself. Meanwhile his little white donkey made at once for the
bunch of his fellows and began pushing them about without ceremony, in
order to make room for himself in the shade. This of course ended in a
great braying and biting of ears, and the boys had to jump up and lay
about them with their sticks before order was restored.

"Thy Pasha is like one possessed of an evil spirit," said one of the
boys as he went back to his game.

"Nay, he is but masterful; see, he obeys one without the stick. Come
here, little dove," called Nabul, who whistled to the little donkey who
wriggled his long ears and came as meek as a lamb and stood by the side
of his master.

"Abdal," said Nabul eagerly in a low voice to his companion lying in
the shade, "I have good news for you. As I came by the big hotel I saw
Mustapha, the dragoman, and he told me that it might be that he would
want our donkeys to-morrow. There are two strangers at the hotel who
have taken him for their dragoman. They have come from America in a big
white ship to Alexandria, after many days on the ocean, and they are to
stay a long time in our country. Mustapha is to be their guide, and if
they want donkeys to ride Mustapha will see that they hire ours," and
here Nabul paused for breath.

"Of a truth they will want donkeys, does not every one who comes to
Cairo take a donkey ride through the bazaars and under the trees of
the broad avenue leading out to the great pyramids?" demanded Abdal,
sitting up and becoming as excited as his friend.

"Yes, but these strangers want to do more than that, for Mustapha says
they may stay in our country for many weeks. One of these strangers is
a boy like ourselves, and did you ever hear of a boy walking when he
could ride?" asked Nabul triumphantly.

"But this boy may be different," said Abdal doubtfully; "however, if
Mustapha has promised--"

"Well, he has," interrupted Nabul, "so to-morrow we must take care to
be the first to show ourselves before them."

The two boys talked it over awhile longer as they ate their bread and
dates and bit of cheese which they each took from a big pocket inside
their long gowns. Abdal then ran across the square and bought a melon
from a fruit merchant who sat there on a round, straw mat with his
stock of melons heaped about him. After they had finished this the two
cousins mounted and galloped away, each in a different direction.

Nabul and Teddy Pasha did some business that afternoon, carrying a few
people up and down the busy streets in the centre of the city, but in
such an absent-minded fashion on Nabul's part that he very nearly let
the Pasha rub a fat old gentleman, who was riding him, off against a
wall. The streets in the older part of Cairo are very, very narrow and
crooked.

Usually it was quite dark when Nabul came home in the evening, but
to-day he was anxious to tell the good news to his mother and the
little sisters, so at sundown he and Teddy Pasha turned toward home.

As the little donkey trotted into the narrow street by the river where
he and Nabul lived, Nabul's two little sisters came running to meet
them. They had been watching for their brother as was their habit every
evening, for often if he and Teddy were not too tired when they got
home, they would be given a little canter to the end of the street and
back, and they knew also that there were usually cakes or sweets in
Nabul's pockets for them.

Nabul was very fond of his little sisters and good to them, better than
little Egyptian boys often are to little girls; and as for the two
little girls, they thought there was nobody in Cairo like their big
brother.

The little girls were dressed in long blue cotton gowns and each wore
a black veil wound around her head and hanging down to her waist. One
of their greatest pleasures was to go out into the crowded city with
Nabul, for they seldom went far away from their home by themselves.

This evening they hung close to their brother as he led Teddy into his
stable, which was on the ground floor of the house. Nabul laughed as
he caught Zaida peeping into his pocket. "Yes, I have brought thee
a sweet morsel," he said, taking a little stick out of his pocket,
on which were threaded a row of small cakes, "but I have brought you
something better than sweetmeats, a piece of good fortune--maybe it may
mean new dresses--who knows?" and he ran up the stairs laughing, with
the little girls close behind and asking all sorts of questions.

[Illustration: NABUL WITH HIS MOTHER AND SISTERS.]

Thus they tumbled into the big family living-room quite out of breath.
"Thou makest noise enough for a small army, my children," said their
mother, who was setting out the evening meal. "Thou art home early, my
son, but all must be well, for thou art merry."

"He has a secret and will not tell it to us, mother," cried Menah, the
eldest sister.

"Now you shall hear it, I waited to tell the mother first," said
Nabul as he told his story of the strangers who wanted to engage two
donkeys and their drivers for, as he hoped, many weeks.

"It would seem, indeed, to be the hand of good fortune which is held
out toward thee," said the mother Mizram.

They all sat around on the floor, which was covered with matting, and
Mizram gave each one a thin, flat sort of pancake made of corn meal
well browned. This was their plate, and on it she heaped up a stew
of mutton and big red peppers fried in oil. Children are never too
happy nor too excited to eat, but between each mouthful they talked
their prospects over and over again, and were only sorry to think that
their father was not here, too, to hear the good news. Nabul's father,
Mahomet Ben Hassan, was the captain of a dahabeah, an Egyptian sailing
boat, which carried merchandise and native passengers up and down the
river Nile. He was away now on a trip and would not be home again for
a week or more. An Egyptian household is very industrious, and every
one of a suitable age and state of health is always very much occupied.
Soon even the little girls would be taught to embroider, and their work
would be sold to some merchant in the great Bazaar, and he in turn
would sell it to strangers at, of course, a much higher price than the
little girls would get for their labour.

When the girls had eaten the cakes that Nabul had brought them and some
fruit, they sat in the big window that overlooked the river, and Abdal
came in and sat with them until bedtime. Abdal's home was on a farm
near Cairo, but since he had become a donkey boy he lived with friends
just at the top of the street.

The little girls and their mother slept on a broad cot in the back
room, up against the wall which was hung with matting to keep off the
chill, but Nabul just rolled himself up in a woollen coverlid and slept
on the hard matted floor, just as soundly, too, as he would have done
in a soft bed.

As you may imagine, little Nabul did not oversleep the next morning.
He was up with a bound as soon as he heard the call of the old muezzin
from the little gallery of a near-by mosque, for that meant it was
time for every one to get up and say his morning prayers and begin
the work of the day. All over Cairo are found these Mohammedan places
of worship, and from their towers and minarets, five times a day, the
muezzin's call to prayer serves the people for a town clock.

"Thou must put on thy best clothes to-day," said Nabul's mother, as she
opened a low wooden box painted green with red and gold decorations.
This was Nabul's own particular trunk, and from it was taken his best
suit. Instead of the blue cotton gown which Nabul usually wore, he
to-day put on a white one that had pretty yellow silk stripes in it,
tying it in with a broad red silk sash at his waist. After this he
stuck his little turban jauntily on the side of his head so that its
long black tassel hung right down over one eye, but he did not seem to
mind this in the least.

"There will not be another donkey boy in Cairo as fine as thee," said
little Zaida, clapping her hands, while Menah stuffed in her brother's
pocket a piece of sweet bread and some dates wrapped in a handkerchief
for his lunch. Nor did she forget a couple of morsels of sugar for
Teddy Pasha.

Nabul now rushed down-stairs to the stable, the Pasha neighing good
morning to him as he heard his little master come in the door. Nabul
brushed and rubbed the little donkey down until his coat was as fine
and glossy as a little donkey's coat could be. Then he dusted off
the gaily coloured blanket and threw it over Teddy Pasha's back, and
strapped on the high padded red saddle, after which, catching the
bridle, hung with red tassels and little bells in his hand, he sprang
on his back, Teddy looking back at his little master and wiggling his
ears as though he quite approved of everything that had been done.

"Now be off, little dove, we are fine enough for the Khedive himself,"
said Nabul, waving a good-bye with his stick to the home folks, and
riding away to join Abdal, who was just then leading his donkey out of
its stable door near by.

"Art thou ready?" cried Nabul as he came up to his cousin. Abdal nodded
and mounted quickly, and away went the two boys laughing and shouting
and calling out pet names to their donkeys as they galloped along.

Soon the boys had left the narrow winding streets of old Cairo behind
them, and were trotting past the beautiful gardens and through the wide
thoroughfares where are only the fine modern houses and big hotels.
Finally they halted in front of the great hotel where the strangers
were staying.

Early as it was, there was a crowd of natives standing on the sidewalk
and gathered about the steps leading from the broad terrace to the
street. All of them were hoping to attract the attention of the guests
of the hotel, some of whom were already eating their breakfasts at
little tables set about on the terrace.

There were beggars of all sorts asking alms, and street peddlers
with their wares well displayed. Some of these were loaded down with
heavy rugs and draperies, others had their arms full of gold and
silver embroideries, or tinsel knickknacks of all kinds. There were
snake-charmers and musicians and jugglers too. It was like a circus
or a county fair. There were the dragomans, as the guides are called,
in a group all by themselves, looking as if they owned the earth,
as they swaggered grandly up and down the pavement dressed in their
handsome silk clothes. No wonder they felt proud, for they were a big,
fine-looking lot of fellows, and most of them spoke many languages. Our
two little friends looked at them with admiration, for you must know
it is the ambition of every donkey boy to become a dragoman himself
some day.

In spite of the haste of our little friends, there were already other
donkey boys ahead of them. These were gathered about a tall dragoman
who stood leaning against the railings smoking his cigarette and paying
not a bit of attention to them.

"There is Mustapha, the dragoman," whispered Nabul to his friend,
pointing to the group; "he too has on his beautiful new clothes."

"Yes, and see how those other fellows stick close to him, like flies
around a honey jar," answered Abdal.

"Aha! they well know that Mustapha is the most popular dragoman in
Cairo, and they hope that he will hire their donkeys," answered Nabul.

Our two little friends now slipped off their donkeys and ran up to the
big dragoman, crying, "We are here, oh, Mustapha! send away these
others."

This made the other boys clamour all the louder. Meanwhile Mustapha
paid not the slightest attention to any of them, but went on puffing
away at his cigarette, for Egyptians have the bad habit of smoking one
of these nasty little cigarettes at nearly all times.

Mustapha did indeed look gorgeous. He had on a bright green silk
garment and over this a pale yellow silk gown; a rich red sash was
wound round his waist many times and around his head was rolled the
folds of a great silken turban of white and gold.

"Thou will want us, oh, Mustapha?" questioned Nabul at last in a
whisper, giving Mustapha's sleeve a tug to remind the great man that
they were still there.

"Who can tell? Allah alone knows the mind of these strangers," answered
the dragoman, finally. "It may be that they will even want to ride in
one of those evil-smelling flying carriages," he continued, throwing a
scornful glance at a big automobile that just at that moment came to a
halt beside them, one of the few to be seen in Egypt.

It is true that there are even automobiles in Egypt, and every dragoman
and donkey boy is very jealous of them, for they are afraid that if
there are too many automobiles, people will not ride on their camels
and donkeys.

"Who would not rather ride on a beautiful donkey like mine than in one
of those noisy, smelly things?" said Abdal, patting his little donkey's
head.

"Hush, here come the two strangers," whispered Abdal, as a little boy,
followed by a tall gentleman, came out on to the terrace.

But Mustapha's quick eye had seen them, and forgetting his lofty
manners he tossed away his cigarette and was smiling and bowing down to
the ground when the little American boy ran up to him, crying: "Here
is our dragoman, isn't he splendid, and look at all the little donkeys!
Oh, do let us take a donkey ride right now, Uncle Ben," he went on
eagerly, "wouldn't that be lots of fun, so much better than tramping
about as we did yesterday?"

"Well, it's the thing to do when one comes to Egypt, so perhaps we had
better try it if you think I can find a donkey high enough to keep
my feet off the ground," said the tall gentleman, looking the little
donkeys over.

All the donkey boys saw that he was talking about them, and pressed
eagerly around, waving their sticks wildly, and each calling out that
his was the best and fastest donkey in Cairo, and there was no other
like him in all the world.

Little Nabul, with his arm over the Pasha's neck, called out as loudly
as any of them, but his heart sank when he saw the little American put
his hand on the bridle of one of the other donkeys standing near him.
What chance had he among so many big fellows? And suppose Mustapha
forgot his promise, after all! Mustapha was so busy talking to the tall
gentleman that he paid no attention to the boys.

At that moment a big donkey boy pushed Nabul so roughly to one side
that both he and Teddy Pasha came very near tumbling between the long
legs of a great wobbly camel that was just coming down the street laden
with big sacks of grain hung across the humps on his back.

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself to hit a little fellow like that,"
cried the little American boy, who had seen it all. "You are twice as
big as he."

Meanwhile Nabul had recovered his balance with tears of anger and
mortification in his eyes. His pretty suit was splashed with mud, and
the end of the rough, heavy sack that was slung across the camel's back
had badly scratched the Pasha's saddle. With his heart almost bursting
with grief and rage he went at the big boy with Abdal close behind him.
If he could only give him a good whack with his stick!

"That's right, go for him," shouted the little American excitedly,
rushing down the steps, "I'll help you out!" For a minute it looked as
if there would be a general fight, but Mustapha with great dignity got
between the boys and talked so sternly in Arabic to the big one that he
was glad enough to slink away to the farther side of the street, glad
indeed that he had not got the beating which he deserved.

"Never mind," said the little American to Nabul, "I will ride your
donkey. I think he is the nicest of them all, anyway."

Nabul did not understand all he said, but he knew what he meant quickly
enough.

"Oh, yes," he cried, "me speak American, too."

"Oh, can you? Then we can talk together and we shall understand each
other very well," cried the little American with great joy.

Nabul was so happy that he could only grin and point to the Pasha.
"Teddy Pasha, his name, Teddy Pasha," he kept on saying.

"Oh, Uncle Ben, his little donkey is named Teddy; we must have him now,
mustn't we?" cried George, as our little American friend was named.

"I don't imagine he can talk very much 'American' as he calls it,"
replied Uncle Ben, "but Mustapha has just been telling me that these
two boys are good reliable little fellows and advises us to take them."

"I am sure they are," said George, enthusiastically, who had already
made friends with the Pasha.

"Well, so long as you have made up your mind to see Egypt on donkey
back, and are going to make your staid old uncle do the same thing, we
will try these two boys and their donkeys to-day, and if they suit us
we will engage them for the whole time we are here," said his uncle.

"Oh, you will be sure to like it, Uncle Ben," said George coaxingly;
but he well knew that his uncle would do anything to please him, even
to riding on a jolting donkey over the rough streets of Cairo.




CHAPTER II

A DONKEY RIDE AROUND CAIRO


AFTER it was all arranged, and Nabul and Abdal were actually sure
that they were to be hired, they were so happy that they did not know
whether they were standing on their heads or heels.

"Well, mount your steed, George, and we will be off," said the tall
gentleman, George's uncle, Mr. Benjamin Winthrop. Mr. Winthrop had
already mounted Abdal's donkey, hunching up his knees so that his feet
would not touch the ground, so George clambered up on Teddy Pasha's
high red saddle and the little donkey started off at a lively trot
without waiting for a tap from Nabul's stick. Away went the little
party down the street, the two Egyptian boys running along, each by the
side of his donkey, crying out so as to clear the road ahead, and every
now and again giving the donkeys a gentle stroke with their sticks, not
to make them go faster, but to guide them. They gave them first a tap
on one side and then on the other, as they wanted them to go to the
left or right.

"My! but they bounce you about," called out George to his uncle. It was
the first time he had ever ridden a donkey and he was holding on for
dear life for fear he would be shaken off.

"These Egyptian donkeys have got a funny sort of trot, but it's all
right when you once get used to it," said Uncle Ben. "It's a bit rough
at first, but just sit easy and you will soon swing into the motion."

So George tried to _look_, at least, as if he felt easy. Now they had
left the new part of the city, frequented by the foreigners, behind
them, and were entering the old city where only the natives live.

Here the streets are so narrow that often the roofs of houses nearly
meet overhead, and they are so cluttered up that it is a wonder that
any one can pass along. There were no sidewalks and everybody walked in
the middle of the street. All the people who had any work to do seemed
to be doing it in the middle of the street, instead of in their houses.

The donkeys soon had to slacken their pace, for there was a perfect
tangle of people and donkeys and little carts, and even a two-horse
carriage tried to push through occasionally. This gave George a chance
to breathe easier, and watch the process by which Nabul guided the
Pasha through the crowd.

"Keep to the right, oh, my lord!" Nabul cried out to a richly dressed
man who was crossing the street. "Look to the left of you, oh, my
mother," he yelled to an old woman who was bending under a great
basket of bread. Little Egyptian children usually call old women and
men by some such respectful names as "Mother" or "Father" or "My Lord."
They know well how to address their elders.

Presently there was a great hubbub and everybody made way for two tall,
strong fellows dressed in white, with gaudy red and gold embroidered
vests and red turbans, who came running down the street shouting as
they went. Each carried a long white wand; behind them came a handsome
carriage and pair.

"Make way for the syces and the carriage of the great Pasha," cried
Nabul, and the little donkeys squeezed up against the side of the
house, though even then there was barely room for the carriage to pass.

George wanted to know who syces were. Mustapha, who had accompanied the
party, explained that they were the men servants who ran before the
carriages of great personages to clear the way for them. They can run
all day as fast as horses can trot, and never get weary.

"Don't you ever get tired, either?" asked George of Nabul as he ran
along beside him. The little Egyptian boy only laughed and shook his
head. It was funny, he thought, how all these strangers asked him the
same question when he took them to ride. He thought nothing of running
all day long by the side of his donkey. Egyptian children are a strong,
hardy little race of people and never seem to know what it is to be
tired. They live much in the open air and they sleep on a hard bed, all
of which tends to make them healthy and strong.

"Now how on earth are we going to pass through here?" asked George,
as they turned a corner and saw a long string of camels coming toward
them. Across each camel were slung two great bulging sacks that nearly
touched the houses on each side.

"Hi-yah! Hi-yah! Jannib ya hu!" (which meant, "Keep to the side,
oh, you!") shrieked Nabul and Abdal to the men who had the camels in
charge. But the camels stalked along in the middle of the way, wagging
their long necks and, of course, the donkeys had to stop, for there was
no room to pass.

[Illustration: AT THE BAZAAR.]

Such a clamour as set up! The donkey boys screamed at the camel
drivers, and the camel men yelled back at them; while Mustapha sat on
his donkey calling the camels and their owners all the names he could
think of.

"One would think they were all going to break each other's heads,
wouldn't you, Uncle Ben?" said George, beginning to get uneasy.

"It's only their way of settling a difficulty, they have no idea of
doing harm to any one," answered Mr. Winthrop. And this was true
enough. Egyptians are not as quarrelsome as they seem. Peace was
restored shortly, and the camel drivers prodded their camels with
their sticks until they squeezed up against one side of the street,
leaving just room enough for the donkeys to get past. As it was, the
last camel in the line nipped off George's cap and Nabul had to rescue
it, but the boys only thought this a good joke.

Now they were trotting through a long covered way on either side of
which were tiny shops or booths for the sale of all sorts of wares.

"The Bazaar! the Bazaar where you buy pretty things!" said Nabul,
pointing to the little booths where the merchants sat surrounded by all
sorts of merchandise, clothes to wear, furniture and dishes to use, and
good things to eat.

"So these are what you call stores; they look more like boxes,"
exclaimed George. "Sha'n't we stop now, Uncle Ben, and look at some of
the things?"

"Mustapha says we should go to the great mosque first, and visit the
Bazaars after lunch," called back his uncle.

So on went the little donkeys, climbing up into the very oldest part
of the city, called the Citadel. Here they clattered through an ancient
gateway and soon found themselves in a dark, gloomy street. The little
donkeys went slowly now, for it was a steep climb around and around
with high walls on either side, until at last they came out at the very
top on a sort of terrace, overlooking the city now far below, and there
stood the great Mosque of Mohammed-Ali, with its great central dome and
slender towers or minarets.

"Isn't it fine?" exclaimed George, as he slipped off the Pasha and
stood looking up at the great building.

"Yes, but there are other mosques in Cairo that are much older,"
answered his uncle, "but this is the most interesting of all to see."

"Alabaster, all alabaster," said Nabul, laying his hand on the stone
work near the great entrance.

"Much of the mosque is built of pure white alabaster," explained
Mustapha, and indeed it is a fact that it is built of this fine white
stone. It shows plainly what good taste these old Mohammedan builders
had and what fine workmen they were.

"Can't we go inside?" asked George, starting at once for the door.

"Wait, the _babouches_," cried Nabul and Abdal together, catching
George by the arm and pointing to a big pile of yellow slippers just
inside the door. These slippers, or _babouches_, were in charge of
an old man with a long white beard and a dirty gown, and he had as
assistants two or three boys who squatted beside the pile of footwear.
On seeing the approach of the visitors one of the boys picked out the
smallest pair of _babouches_ he could find and motioned to George to
put them on over his shoes.

"What is that for?" asked George, bewildered.

"No one can enter a Mohammedan mosque with the shoes in which he walks
the street," answered Mustapha. "We Mohammedans leave ours at the door,
but for the strangers there are these slippers, or _babouches_, to be
worn over their shoes so that the sacred carpets of the mosque may not
be defiled."

George thought it very funny as he stuck his feet into the big,
wobbly yellow slippers. Nabul simply shuffled out of his own little
red slippers and left them in charge of the boys at the door, whose
business it was to guard such footgear while their owners were inside.
Meanwhile Abdal stayed behind to guard the donkeys.

They entered a great hall where were many graceful columns, but the
place seemed bare, for there were no furnishings of any kind, except
that the floor was covered with rich rugs, and from the ceiling hung
hundreds of glittering lamps. On one side was a sort of pulpit at the
top of a short flight of stairs. There were a number of people saying
their prayers in the mosque. They would kneel and bow their heads to
the floor and stand up and raise up their arms, all making the motions
together. It made George think of the gymnastic exercises in his school
at home.

"Nabul, I believe I have lost one of those precious old slippers," said
George, suddenly looking down at his feet.

Nabul looked horrified when he saw George with only one slipper on.

"I find," he said, and hurried back the way they had come.

Mustapha turned around to see what was the matter, and waved his arms
wildly and jabbered out a string of words when George told him what had
happened.

"What do you suppose they will do to me, Uncle Ben," laughed George,
"put me in prison? It is not my fault the old slipper came off, it's as
big as a boat anyhow."

"I know what would have happened not so very many years ago," answered
his uncle. "We should probably all have been mobbed, if not killed, for
it is only of recent years that people who are not Mohammedans have
been allowed to come inside the mosques at all. There is nothing which
shows the character and habits of the natives of Cairo better than by
observing how their religion enters into their daily lives."

"It's a regular 'hunt the slipper game,'" said George, as he watched
the little Egyptian looking carefully over the rugs.

Suddenly Nabul came running back with something in his clothes.

"Quick, I put him on," he whispered, slipping the missing _babouche_
on George's foot, at the same time glancing around to see that no one
was looking. No one was looking, and nothing happened, though George
wondered if that would have been the case if he had been found with
only one slipper.

At the door they dropped the _babouches_ for good, and outside found
Abdal playing games with some boys, and the donkeys fast asleep. They
were soon waked up, and our party cantered back to the hotel for lunch,
for as George said, "It's funny how seeing things makes you so hungry."

Mustapha told the boys to be back at two o'clock with their donkeys,
but just now they were cantering off for their own midday meal. Nabul
was in such high spirits that he must stop and buy some hot fried
peppers and a pile of sticky sweet cakes from the man who sat under a
big red umbrella frying big red and green peppers in a pan of olive oil
which stood on a small brazier of charcoal. It is the custom for the
sellers of vegetables and cakes to cook them in the open air in order
to attract trade by the odours and sweet smell of the cooking.

The man began to ladle out some of the hot greasy peppers. "More, more,
'tis not enough for a coin like that," cried the boy, throwing down a
silver piece with a lofty air.

"Oho, thou eatest like a nobleman to-day," said the old man, peering at
the coin. "Since when have the donkey boys become so rich?"

"There is a little American lord at the big hotel, and I am to be his
donkey boy," answered Nabul, as he and Abdal carefully divided the
peppers between them.

"Umph, yes, for a ride through the Bazaar and back again like all these
stranger folk," said the old man as he flung some more peppers in his
pan.

The boys only laughed and went off to eat their lunch in company with
their companions in the great square.

There were a lot of their comrades there and they hailed our little
friends at once, eager to know all about the strangers to whom they had
hired out their donkeys, but Nabul and Abdal kept a discreet silence,
only hinting that the strangers were doubtless princes in their own
country. Donkey boys love to brag, but they are apt to be a jealous lot
and are on their guard against any interference from one another.

One by one the boys got tired of asking questions and dozed off curled
up on the dusty ground; but the young Egyptians did not mind this; nor
the heat, the sun was very hot even though it was in winter; nor the
swarm of flies that buzzed around them. But little Nabul could not
sleep, he sat there thinking of the little American, and wondering how
long he would keep him for his donkey boy.

If he would hire him for a long time what a lot of money he would make,
and what a lot of things he could buy with it. He would buy himself a
new suit to wear on the last day of Ramadan, the Mohammedans' great
religious fête, when everybody who possibly could put on new clothes
of the finest stuffs and the brightest colours. He would buy a new
saddle for Teddy Pasha, for his present one was looking the least bit
shabby, and the scratch that it got from the rough sack on the camel's
back that morning had not improved it in the least. The owner of a
horse or donkey in Egypt will always dress up his steed as elaborately
as his means will allow, and never, never, if it can be helped, will
he drive him with a shabby saddle or bridle. Perhaps, even, there
would be enough to buy new dresses for the little girls and a pair of
silver bracelets for the mother, for all Egyptian women folk are very
fond of jewelry. He would like to buy something, too, for the father,
but before he knew it Nabul was fast asleep dreaming of untold riches,
and only awoke with a jerk when Abdal reached over and shook him into
wakefulness, for the sun told them it was time to be at work again.

George was hanging over the railing of the terrace of the hotel on the
look-out for them as they came up, and waved his hat in the air when
he caught sight of Teddy Pasha again.

This time all started off towards the quarter of the big Bazaars.
Here they found many tourists like themselves mounted on donkeys, for
everybody who comes to Cairo must take a ride through the Bazaars where
there are such curious and beautiful things for sale. All the same,
if one was not a mere tourist, and wanted to learn of the manners and
customs of the people, these curious streets and squares of little
shops were quite the best places in the city to observe how hundreds
and thousands of folk gained their living in most strange ways.

It was funny to see the merchants run out and hail the passers-by, and
beg them to look at their wares. One shopkeeper nearly lifted Uncle
Ben off the donkey, much to George's amusement. Many of them were very
polite, too, and offered visitors coffee when they took their seats on
the stools in front of a shop. The people in the Bazaar were almost
as interesting as the shops themselves. There were the tall Egyptians
of the towns and fellaheen from the country and Bedouin Arabs from
the desert in their long, flowing white cloaks, and big black people
from the Soudan in the far South. Everybody jabbered at once, but all
spoke the same speech. It was curious how, looking so different, they
were all practically of one race and religion. There were also numbers
of Egyptian women all bundled up in black with white veils over their
faces, for neither the Egyptian nor Arab women would ever think of
allowing a strange man to see their faces.

George had a chance to become better acquainted with the boys while
his uncle was making some purchases. He found that not only could they
speak a little English, but some French and a few words of Italian,
too. The little Egyptian donkey boys are remarkably quick to catch up a
foreign language. Nabul told him how he had learned his funny broken
English. He had first picked up words from the tourists who rode on his
donkey, and Mustapha had taught him a good deal, for he spoke English
very well.

Their own speech in Arabic sounds very strange when translated into
our own tongue, as the Egyptians, and indeed all the races which speak
Arabic, are very fond of using big words, and they invariably express
themselves in the most formal and dignified manner. In the evening
Nabul had gone to the English school all one year, and really he had
acquired so much English that he could chatter away as fast as the
little American, if not always so grammatically correct.

So by the time they had ridden through many more quaint streets and the
beautiful Esbekiyeh Gardens and were well on their way back the boys
were good friends.

"Please do tell them now that we will take them for our donkey boys
for all the time we are here, Uncle Ben," George whispered when they
alighted once more at the hotel.

"They do seem to be good obliging little fellows, and as you are the
one to be pleased, for you will do most of the riding, I will tell
Mustapha to arrange it with them," said Mr. Winthrop.

So it was settled that the services of the two boys and their donkeys
should be engaged for a month, with the understanding that they would
be free to do business with other people if at any time they were not
needed.

And weren't the little Egyptians delighted! They cried "Salaam, salaam,
O gracious Effendi!" many times, which was their way of saying "Thank
you, sir!" They strutted through the usual crowd of donkey boys hanging
about, puffed up with pride, and were followed by the envious glances
of the other boys, for it was not often one of their number fell in
with such a piece of good luck.

And how happy they all were in Nabul's home when he rushed in with the
news. The little sisters hugged him and the mother gave him an extra
nice supper, and he went to sleep that night dreaming that he was a
big, fine dragoman and that Teddy Pasha wore a great red turban and
could talk English.

Every morning bright and early Nabul and Abdal with the donkeys, all
looking as spick and span as possible, would be waiting in front of the
hotel for the little "Effendi," as they called George Winthrop, and
when Mr. Winthrop and George were ready away they would ride.

Big, fat Mustapha, jolting up and down on his own donkey, would lead
the way, and showed them each day some of the many strange and curious
things to be seen in and around the city, until finally George felt
quite as much at home in Cairo as did his new found friends.

One day they hurried through lunch to go to see the "Whirling
Dervishes," a queer lot of people, who spin around and around like a
top, as fast as ever they can, until they are so tired they drop on
the floor. They saw the "Howling Dervishes," too, men in gowns of many
colours, with wild faces and long hair, whose blood-curdling howls as
they swayed themselves to and fro almost frightened George, who could
not understand how people could possibly do such queer things as an
act of worship. These are only two of the many sects of the Mohammedan
religion.

One day they crossed over to the island in the river Nile, where
Mustapha knocked at a gate which was opened by a man in a long green
gown, and they found themselves in a garden among trees loaded with
oranges and lemons. Here George crept behind the boys along the top of
a wall to a spot where, so the story runs, the baby Moses was found
asleep in his cradle in the bulrushes by a daughter of the Pharaoh.
The Pharaohs were the ancient kings of Egypt. It was most interesting
for George, who was surprised indeed to find this land of Mohammedanism
had recollections also of his own Christian religion.

Another day they all rode out to a place named Heliopolis, where long
ago there was a great city called the City of the Sun. Now only a tall
granite obelisk stands there, and any little American can see its
"twin," as George called it, if he or she will go to New York City and
look at the big obelisk which stands in Central Park. Once upon a time
several obelisks stood side by side at Heliopolis, but the Khedive, the
ruler of Egypt, some years ago wanted to make a valuable present to the
United States, so he gave them one of these obelisks, the same which
to-day may be seen in New York City.

When they visited the great Museum Uncle Ben and George stood amazed
before the great mummy cases and the petrified mummies themselves
(many of them the old kings of Egypt), which have been buried for
thousands of years, and only recently been brought to light. It is by
preserving all these great finds, dug up from the soil often in the
most unexpected places, that it has been possible to write the history
of Egypt.




CHAPTER III

THE BOYS CLIMB THE PYRAMIDS


"UNCLE Ben, I am going to ride the Pasha out to the Pyramids,"
announced George, as they were talking over their plans for a trip to
the great Pyramids of Gizeh. They had just come in from a ride, and
Nabul and Abdal were anxiously waiting, fearful lest the tall Effendi
would say, "Well, boys, we won't need you to-morrow."

"Do you really mean to say that when you can either drive in a
comfortable automobile or carriage, or ride on a street-car out to the
Pyramids, that you prefer donkey back?" asked his uncle.

"Indeed I do, Uncle Ben, it's lots more fun," said George, "besides we
can ride in automobiles and street-cars when we are home."

George was now quite used to riding donkey-back, though didn't he feel
tired and bumped about the first day or two! But now he could ride as
well as the little Egyptian boys, and Nabul had taught him how to guide
the donkey by taps with his heels; as for Teddy Pasha, he obeyed George
almost as well as he did his little master.

"And Nabul, how will he get out there, run all the way? It's some
distance, you know," said Mr. Winthrop, smiling at the boys.

"No, no!" broke in Nabul eagerly, "I ride behind the young Effendi;
Teddy Pasha, he is strong."

"Yes, uncle, you know how strong these little donkeys are; they don't
mind one bit carrying two persons. When Nabul gets tired of walking he
can easily ride behind with me, can't you, Nabul?" chimed in George.

Nabul nodded vigorously, "Yes, yes."

"Well, if you boys and Teddy Pasha don't mind, it's all right," laughed
Uncle Ben, "but if you don't object, I am going to drive, so, Abdal,
I will not want you to-day, but there is a gentleman in the hotel who
wants a donkey boy, and I have told him to take you," continued Mr.
Winthrop.

The boys all pulled long faces, especially Abdal, who knew he was going
to miss a good time, for they intended to take their lunch and stay the
day.

"It is just as well if neither of them went," muttered Mustapha, "there
is sure to be trouble with the boys out there."

George started to ask why, but before he had a chance Mustapha carried
the boys off to make arrangements for the morrow.

Little Nabul was at his usual place bright and early the next morning,
all ready for their trip to the great Pyramids. He had a broad grin on
his face as he peered through the railings and "salaamed" or bowed to
Mr. Winthrop and George, who were finishing their breakfast at one of
the little tables on the terrace.

The Pasha, too, looked around and wriggled his ears knowingly.

"He smells sugar, the rascal," exclaimed George, who had got in
the habit of giving him sugar, and so, filling his pocket from the
sugar-bowl, he came down into the street and began feeding it to the
donkey.

Mustapha now came up with a small open carriage, and they got off at
once, leaving Abdal looking very blue.

Uncle Ben was in the carriage and Mustapha on the seat beside the
driver, while George on Teddy Pasha trotted along, guided by Nabul on
foot as usual.

Soon they were crossing the bridge across the Nile which has two great
stone lions at either end, and then out on to a long, straight avenue
shaded by big trees, which leads straight as an arrow from the city of
Cairo out to the Pyramids.

There were many people coming and going along the great avenue. The
country folks were bringing their produce into the city to sell, and
much of it was carried on the backs of donkeys. There were great
lumbering carts drawn by oxen, and long lines of camels, laden with
such big loads piled on their backs that they looked like moving
mountains.

Up to the very gates of Cairo come the great gardens and farms which
grow bountiful supplies of vegetables and fruits, and there are even
great wheat-fields watered by the flowing Nile and tilled by the
fellaheen, or labourers, after the same manner that the natives of
Arabia, across the Red Sea, worked in Bible times.

Egypt is a great and progressive and very wealthy country, but the
country folk have not all been taught as yet how to get the best
results from their labour. They are learning rapidly, however, and
they see things in the city, when they bring their produce to market,
which please their fancies, and now in many an Egyptian farmhouse built
of sun-baked mud, and even in the tents of the Bedouin Arabs of the
desert, one often sees those common nickel alarm clocks, oil lamps, and
even little hand sewing-machines.

Amidst all this throng of country people going citywards our friends
made but slow progress. Often the little donkeys from the country would
pass, carrying two and sometimes three big men on their backs.

"See what great loads these country donkeys have to carry," said Nabul
to his donkey. "Thou shouldst be willing to carry me for a while," and
so saying Nabul jumped up on Teddy Pasha's broad back behind the little
American.

Teddy Pasha turned his head around with an inquiring look as much as to
say, "Oh, yes, I can see you," and then drooped his ears, then stood
stock-still. Not a foot would he budge.

"Go on, lazy one, is this the way that thou wilt disgrace me?" cried
Nabul, beating his heels against the Pasha. "No one will again believe
me when I praise thee! Oh, thou ungrateful beast!" he continued,
half-crying with vexation. By this time the carriage was far ahead and
some little children wading in a pool by the wayside began to jeer at
them.

George remembered the sugar in his pocket and tried to coax the Pasha
with some of it. The Pasha ate it gratefully, but that was all he would
do.

At this moment the boys heard some one laugh behind them, and the
jingle of donkey bells, and who should go dashing past them but Abdal
on his donkey, Bobs!

The minute Pasha saw it was Bobs passing him he got on his mettle and
away he went after him. Meantime the carriage had halted, and when the
boys came up, Uncle Ben was looking anxiously around and Mustapha was
ready to scold.

"Why dost thou linger?" he demanded of Nabul, "and Abdal, why art
thou not in the city earning money instead of galloping all over the
country?"

"I knew well that when the Effendi reaches the great Pyramids he will
want to ride out to see the wonderful Sphinx, and I knew, too, he
would not want to ride one of those miserable little donkeys that one
finds there, so, behold, I am here at his service," and Abdal, quite
unabashed, smiled so sweetly at Mr. Winthrop, that the gentleman did
not have the heart to scold him for deserting his friend at the hotel.

"Thou wilt have to fight, then, with the donkey boys at the Pyramids;
they will call thee a meddler, and perhaps beat thee," called out
Mustapha ungraciously as the little procession started on again.

"Pouf," said Nabul, "they are only Bedouins." The little boys who live
in Cairo have a great contempt for the Bedouins, the people who live in
the desert.

"Why should they object to our riding your donkeys?" asked George, full
of curiosity.

Nabul explained in his broken English that there was a tribe of
Bedouins who lived near the Pyramids, who thought that they only had
the right to act as guides to the visitors who come to see these great
monuments. This was because the men of their tribe had been doing this
for years and years; and it was thus that they resented any one coming
in and interfering with their ancient privileges.

"I call that real selfish, don't you, Uncle Ben?" exclaimed George.

"But they shall not fight me and Abdal, we are your donkey boys; you
ride our donkeys in the great city, and you shall ride our donkeys at
the Pyramids; it is the same thing; they shall not run us away," said
little Nabul stoutly.

"We won't let them," declared George, and he doubled up his fists,
"we'll fight first."

"Behold the great Pyramids!" called out Mustapha, pointing between the
trees. Sure enough, there stood the three Pyramids, that every child
knows so well from the pictures, rising one behind the other.

"They look very small," said George disappointedly.

"But they are big, very big, wait and you will see," said Nabul. This
was quite true. As they rode nearer, the Pyramids seemed to grow bigger
and bigger. Now as they had come to the end of the avenue the carriage
stopped, for only the sandy desert lay beyond.

Abdal had Bobs ready and Uncle Ben mounted, and away they went up a
sloping hill toward the largest of the three Pyramids. All around the
base of this Pyramid were gathered a crowd of Egyptians, men and boys,
leading camels and donkeys. As soon as they caught sight of the little
party, this howling crowd came rushing to meet them. A number of them
gathered around Uncle Ben and George, catching hold of them; shouting
in their own language and in broken English, "Take me for guide! Take
me for guide!" Such a din as they kept up was never heard anywhere else.

George did not know whether to laugh or to feel frightened when two big
fellows tried to pull him off his donkey, but he held on to Teddy Pasha
for dear life, and the Pasha helped him fend off the fellows by backing
his ears and kicking out with his heels.

Meanwhile Nabul and Abdal were brandishing their sticks in the faces of
the Bedouins and calling them all kinds of names, all the while holding
on tightly to the bridles of their own donkeys. Big, fat Mustapha
forgot all about his dignity and went at the fellows, trying to push
them away and shouting at the top of his voice. In the midst of the
fuss Nabul cried out: "O Sheik, O Sheik, decide for us!" At the same
time he rushed up to a tall man with a long gray beard and flowing
white garments, who strode up, giving the crowd of Bedouins a whack
first to one side and then to the other with a high staff which he
carried in his hand.

"Oh, thou ruffians, wilt thou drive the strangers away with thy
violence?" demanded the old man, looking sternly around him, while
Mustapha explained things to him.

"The Sheik will make them behave now," said Abdal.

"How can he?" asked George, glad to be free of the two Bedouins who had
been pestering him.

"It is the Sheik of the Pyramids, the chief of the tribe, they must
obey him," answered Nabul.

"Who gave them the right to guard the Pyramids? Why can't anybody walk
around here alone if he wants to?" persisted the American boy.

"I know not, it has always been so," said Nabul with a shrug of his
shoulders.

"Ah! And they pay many pieces of gold as a tax for the right," chimed
in Abdal, looking wise.

"They rob the travellers of money, too, the thieves!" returned Nabul,
glowering at a bunch of donkey boys who were poking all manner of fun
at the little boys from the city, though they did not dare to attack
them while the Sheik was around.

Mustapha had evidently arranged matters with the Sheik, and came back
with four of the Bedouins whom he said would take Mr. Winthrop and
George up to the top of the great Pyramid.

"Dear me, I certainly don't need two big men to help me climb up
there," exclaimed George. "Why, it must be as easy as can be to climb
from one of those steps to another, Uncle Ben."

"It's probably harder work than it looks, just try it," answered his
uncle.

Mustapha was going to sit in the shade and have a friendly smoke with
the Sheik, and rest after his exertions, but he very graciously told
Nabul and Abdal that, if they wanted to, they could leave their donkeys
in his charge and climb up with the "young Effendi."

Nothing loath, the little Egyptians began to scramble up the side of
the great Pyramid, calling to George to follow, that they knew the way.

The Pyramids are so built that the stones form great steps from the
bottom to the top. To George's great surprise when he got to the first
of these steps, which looked so small from the ground, he found it was
as high as he was. The little Egyptian boys quickly hoisted themselves
up, and nothing daunted, George followed as best he could; but after
two or three of these high steps, he was glad enough to have his two
guides take hold of his arms--one on either side--and lift him easily
from one big step to the other. George was so out of breath that he
could not say a word, but only watch Nabul and Abdal away ahead of him,
climbing up the great stone blocks like gazelles. The ascent seemed
to take a long time to George, but it was really only a few minutes
before the two Bedouins lifted him over the last step. Close behind him
came his uncle, panting between his two guides, and the little party
now found themselves on a sort of platform at the tip-top of the great
Pyramid.

How much could be seen from their lofty perch! And how eager were the
little Egyptians to point out everything to the strangers!

There were the other two Pyramids, much smaller than the one they
stood on, which is called the Pyramid of Cheops. On one side stretched
the great yellow desert of sand and rocks; on the other were green
fields and groups of little Arab villages and palm-trees. That silver
ribbon running through the green fields, way off yonder, was the great
waterway of the Nile, and there beside it was the big white city of
Cairo. They laughed as they looked down on the guides and donkey boys
far below, for they looked like little toy figures.

"The Pyramids were built for tombs, weren't they, Uncle Ben?" asked
George, as they rested and sipped tiny cups of coffee, which they
bought from a man dressed in a yellow gown and green turban who sat
beside a small brazier of charcoal making coffee to sell to the
visitors.

"Yes, by those old Kings of Egypt--the Pharaohs. The stones of which
they are built were brought from great distances and put into place by
regular armies of men who worked many long years. Even to-day there is
more or less mystery surrounding them, and strangers from all over the
world never cease to wonder and marvel at these curious monuments."

After resting awhile, our party climbed down again, which was almost as
hard work as getting up. At the bottom the donkey boys of the Pyramids
were waiting for them again, and only the Sheik's stern eye kept them
in good order.

"You see that door there," said Nabul, pointing to an opening in the
base of the Pyramid; "you can go inside if you like. It is said that
the great kings of olden times were buried in there. That is the door
to the tombs; and there is a great room inside with pictures painted
on the walls, but oh, it is dark, I like it not," said little Nabul,
shaking his head.

George did not think he would like it, either, and wanted to know where
the Sphinx was. So all mounted the donkeys again and trotted through
the sand to see the Sphinx, followed by the disappointed Bedouin donkey
boys who finally one by one trailed off and left them in peace.

"I thought the Sphinx was right beside the Pyramids. I don't see it
now," said George.

"It is there, the great Sphinx, see!" said Nabul, as they turned around
a hillock of sand. Sure enough there was the big stone head sticking up
out of the sand. Nabul and Abdal brought the donkeys to a standstill in
front of it, and the boys stood on the edge of a great pit staring at
the strange figure which has the head of a human being and the body of
a lion, and which was carved out of the rock so long ago that no one
now knows its history.

"Look, the Sphinx smiles, she always smiles like that," whispered Nabul
(he called it "Spinkie" in a funny little way). "I think sometimes I
can see her mouth move." It is quite true that the stone lips do seem
to smile.

"Let's climb up and whisper something in its ear," said George. The
boys ran down the sloping sides of the great pit in which sat the
Sphinx, but to George's amazement he found that he could not even
climb up to one of the great paws, much less the head which towered
high above them.

By this time they all decided that they were very hungry, and that it
would be a fine idea to have a picnic between the paws of the great
Sphinx. So Mustapha opened the lunch basket which he had brought, and
the little party seated themselves in the shade of the strange stone
face, and spread out the contents of the palm-leaf basket on a big flat
stone. Nabul and Abdal had their lunch stowed away somewhere in their
garments, and they were eager that George should taste their favourite
dish of fried peppers that--ugh!--made his mouth smart, though he liked
their sweet honey cakes. But not for anything would the little Egyptian
boys eat any of the nice cold ham which was a part of his lunch, for no
little Mohammedan child, or grown person either, would touch pork in
any shape or form. It was against their religion.

[Illustration: AT THE PYRAMIDS.]

Then they discovered that they were very thirsty, and Abdal ran off to
find something cool to drink, and came back with one of the vendors of
lemonade who hang around the Pyramids selling their cool drinks. The
_sherbutli_, as Abdal called him, wore a bright red apron and carried
little blue china cups on a brass tray. These he filled with lemonade
from the big glass bottle which was slung over his shoulder, and the
children thought nothing ever tasted nicer.

They rested for awhile and amused themselves watching the people who
came riding up on camels or donkeys to see the Sphinx. Finally Mustapha
said it was time to go back to the city, and though George stoutly
declared he wasn't a bit tired he was not really sorry when Uncle Ben
said that he had better drive back in the carriage with him, and Teddy
Pasha and Bobs were probably glad, too, when they turned into their
stables that night.




CHAPTER IV

BEN HASSAN'S DAHABEAH


NABUL often talked with the "little Effendi" during their rides
together, of his home and the mother and the two little sisters, and
about his father and the dahabeah with its huge sails, until nothing
would do but George must know them all and take a trip on the dahabeah.

The boys had their heads together a lot these days, and at last it came
out that it would be a splendid plan for all of them to take a trip up
the Nile on the dahabeah of Nabul's father.

"Think what a treat it will be, Uncle Ben," said George, "to go and
live on a real Egyptian boat. Nabul's mother is going to keep house for
us on board, and the little girls will help her. Then, just think! we
can take the donkeys, too," continued George, warming up more and more
to his subject.

"Well! George, you seem to have thought of everything," and Mr.
Winthrop laughed long and heartily. "I did not know you had such a head
for business. It does not seem a bad idea, however, this river trip of
yours; there must be much that is interesting to be seen in that way,"
continued his uncle. "I will ask Mustapha what he thinks about it."

"Uncle Ben, you are a good fellow!" exclaimed George, jumping up and
hugging his uncle, for now he would have a chance to see something of
the real life of the country such as the tourists who stayed only in
the cities never had.

Mustapha was very bland and gracious when he found out that he was
expected to go along, too. He said that Ben Hassan, Nabul's father,
was a good friend of his, that there was no more skilful captain nor
better dahabeah on the Nile than his, and that everything could be
arranged as they wished.

Nabul was a happy little boy the day he guided these wonderful
Americans, as he always thought of them, to his home. There they met
Nabul's father, a tall, grave man of few words. While he and Uncle Ben
talked the trip over (with Mustapha as interpreter, though Ben Hassan
knew some English), Mizram the mother gave them coffee served in tiny
cups without handles, each set in a brass holder,--the thick Turkish
coffee which is all grounds and sugar which one gets in Egypt. Then
the two little sisters crept in to see the kind people their brother
had talked so much about. Menah, who was the eldest, was rather shy
and quiet, but Zaida was a roguish, merry little soul who made friends
easily. They did not know a word of English, but by smiles and gestures
they made friends with George and showed him all their treasures.
There was the big white cockatoo who swung on his perch and could talk,
and a cage of small singing birds that Abdal's father had sent them.

And the little girls had some dolls of which they were very proud.
The dolls were queer little figures, fashioned after those which had
been dug up from old tombs where they had been buried for centuries.
There were odd little stone and clay figures, too, which the girls
treasured quite as much as they did the dolls in human form. One was
in the form of a Nile crocodile, another of a buffalo and another of a
lion, and still others in the form of goats, camels, and donkeys. There
was another doll in the form of a man carrying a great basket on his
shoulder and another of a washerwoman.

The custom of little Egyptian children playing with these dolls and
figures is very old--for all the world their dolls are like the Noah's
Ark animals which you have at home--and ages and ages ago, when little
children died, their dolls were always buried with them.

After the call upon Nabul's family everybody trooped down to the river
to see the _Isis_, which was the name of Ben Hassan's dahabeah, and Mr.
Winthrop agreed with George that it was just the thing they would both
like, so it was all arranged on the spot without further ado, and it
was decided that they would start on the voyage up-river the following
week.

Finally the day came to set sail. It was indeed a busy morning for the
family of Ben Hassan! Baskets and pots and pans and jars and sacks of
clothing and household belongings of all kinds were loaded on to Teddy
Pasha and Bobs, who must have wondered to themselves what was going to
happen. At last everything had been thought of, Nabul's mother gave the
last directions to the friends whom Abdal lived with who were to look
after the house and the fowls and the birds while they were away, then
amid good-byes from the neighbours, who were all at their windows and
doors to see them off, the little procession started down to the river
landing where lay the dahabeah.

"Hurry up, lazy one," cried Abdal, "thou wilt have plenty of time to
rest," as he hurried Bobs along with a tap from his stick.

"Thou dost not go that way to-day," said Nabul, giving Teddy Pasha's
bridle a jerk as he started to turn down his habitual street. "Thou
goest on a longer journey to-day." And the two little donkeys put their
heads together as if to discuss this unusual proceeding.

When they got to the dahabeah everybody was bustling about, putting
the boat in order for the voyage. Nabul's father was standing on the
little upper deck giving orders to some of the crew who were looking
to the ropes and sails, while others were scrubbing the deck. Here and
there were piled up all sorts of things, gaily painted wooden boxes,
which are the kind of trunks Egyptians use, baskets of eatables, live
chickens, and big water-jars.

Everybody was talking and shouting all at once in the usual Egyptian
fashion. Mizram, however, at once set to work to get things
straightened out, and the little girls helped her as best they could.

In the midst of it all the carriage drove up with Mr. Winthrop and
George and their baggage, with Mustapha beside the driver. George was
standing up waving his cap, and was out of the carriage before it
stopped. He rushed up the gang-plank and on to the deck, and insisted
on shaking hands with everybody, beginning with the reis, as a Nile
captain is named, and ending with the boy washing down the deck. Every
one was greatly surprised, for Egyptians don't known anything about
shaking hands in our way. Their ceremonies of politeness are quite as
marked, but very different, as, for instance, a kiss on the forehead.

[Illustration: THE DAHABEAH.]

Meanwhile Mustapha was in his element, storming about and calling on
the great Prophet Mohammed to bear witness that they would never be
able to get off with such a crew of dullards.

"As for me I am going to get out of the way by going on the upper deck,
it seems to be the only quiet place on board," said Uncle Ben, as he
dodged the chickens and took refuge on the elevated stern of the boat
where the grave, stately reis gave him a deep salaam of welcome.

Urged on by Mustapha's threats, the little crew soon began to get
things in order. The tug of war came when it was time for the donkeys
to come aboard. The boys got them up to the plank, but there they
just planted their feet down firmly and not another step would they
budge. They weren't going to leave dry land. Nabul coaxed and pulled,
and Abdal clucked and prodded, but all Teddy Pasha did was to back
his ears and give an awful bray, which made the crowd of loafers
gathered on the river bank laugh. Finally Nabul tied a cloth over the
Pasha's head, and while he pulled hard at the bridle in front Abdal
tweaked the little donkey's tail, and this made him so mad that he
dashed up the plank and on to the deck before he knew it, and just
as soon as Bobs saw him go he rushed aft. The donkeys were then led
triumphantly to their quarters in the prow of the boat, where they were
very comfortable and content. George at once christened this part of
the boat "the menagerie," for the chickens were already there pecking
away at some grain, each fastened to the railing by a long string tied
around one leg to keep them from flying overboard. The little girls,
too, had brought the big white cockatoo to keep them company, and his
wooden cage hung against the side of the cabin, while curled up in a
tight box was a tame snake belonging to one of the crew. The Egyptians
of all ages and all classes are very fond of pets.

George was as excited and happy as could be as he rushed about with the
children from one end of the boat to the other.

"Isn't it funny to see sailors in long white gowns and turbans on their
heads, Uncle Ben?" laughed George. "How can they ever climb up the
rigging in clothes like that?"

"But they don't have any rigging to climb, on a dahabeah, they only
have to shift a rope once and again," said Mr. Winthrop.

There was a large sail in the bow and a much smaller one in the stern,
each of them of the great pointed lateen variety seen on the rivers and
along the coasts of all Mediterranean countries. The boat itself was
a sharp-prowed, broad-bottomed affair which seemed to glide over the
water rather than through it. The Nile dahabeahs are among the most
picturesque boats afloat.

In the stern, on the lower deck, were two small cabins for Uncle Ben
and George, and a little saloon to eat in. Further forward was the
kitchen and storeroom, and beyond these the quarters for the reis's
family and Mustapha.

"We sleep on the deck," said Nabul. "Abdal and I just roll up in a
blanket and lie down on the deck boards, and sleep just like the crew."

"I should like to do that, too; it must be lots more fun than sleeping
in a stuffy little cabin," exclaimed George, much interested.

"It's hard if you aren't used to it, but we think nothing of doing so,"
said Abdal.

At last the friends who had come down to see them off had taken their
leave, and the gang-plank was drawn in, the sails unfurled, and two of
the men seized a couple of big oars and pushed off the prow from the
bank. Slowly the dahabeah swung over to the middle of the stream; the
crowd on shore shouted a last farewell; the breeze caught and filled
the big sails, and in a few minutes they were gliding swiftly through
the muddy brown water of the Nile, up river toward the very heart of
the "dark continent" of Africa.

On the upper deck Mustapha had just put two long wicker chairs for
the "Effendis," and Uncle Ben, who had picked up a little Arabic, was
comfortably stretched out in one trying to talk with the reis, who sat
beside him on a rug spread on the deck smoking his big "hubble-bubble"
pipe, every once in awhile giving an order to one of the crew as they
trimmed the sails to catch all the breeze.

Mats were spread on the decks for the others; the children, however,
were too busy to think of sitting down; they kept running from one
side to the other, watching the houses and people on the banks as they
slipped past, and the queer craft going and coming on the river.

"There come three nuggars," said Abdal, pointing to three broad, flat,
barge-like boats, each with a high lateen sail, coming slowly toward
them.

"What a funny name! what are 'nuggars'?" asked George.

"Nuggars are the great Nile cargo boats which carry all kinds of
merchandise up and down the river," said Nabul. "See the great boxes
and bales on that one," he continued.

"And the one behind has a lot of oxen and sheep on it; they are loaded
down to the water's edge, I wonder they don't sink," said George. "Oh!
And here come three haystacks floating down-stream! With sails on top
of them, too!" he cried.

But no, they too were boats, this time loaded with fodder and the long
green bamboos which were being carried to the city. Then a ferryboat
filled with people and donkeys crossed the river ahead of them, rowed
by men in dark blue cotton gowns. It was all so novel and amusing the
children were almost sorry to stop looking in order to eat lunch,
though George did say he was hungry enough to eat a hippopotamus.

One of the men brought a table and noiselessly set it on deck for
the "Effendis," and then served them the nice things that Mizram had
cooked. There was chicken with a nice hot pepper sauce and rice and all
kinds of vegetables and melons and dates and oranges.

At the other end of the deck the reis and his family and Mustapha had
their meal. Mizram served them all sorts of queer dishes that the
little Egyptians kept on bringing to the "Effendi" to taste; and how
they laughed at the faces the little American made over some of them!

    "'After Al-Ghada, rest, if it be but for two moments;
      After Al-Asha, walk, if it be but two steps,'"

said Mustapha, quoting one of their proverbs as he stretched himself on
a rug for a nap after dinner. _Al-Ghada_ is dinner and _Al-Asha_ is
supper.

"Nabul, what is in that bag?" asked George, pointing to a big brown bag
which hung on the side of the mast of the dahabeah, and which one of
the men was just taking down.

"It is the food of the crew. They put it there so that all can see it
and no one can steal any of it without his fellows seeing him. The crew
are going to eat their dinner now," explained Nabul, "and that fellow
there has just climbed up and unhooked it."

By this time the sun was beating down hotly on the canvas awning over
the deck, and one by one everybody followed Mustapha's advice, except
the men on duty. The little Egyptian children, curled up on their mats,
were soon sound asleep. George stoutly declared that he was not going
to miss anything by sleeping. Mr. Winthrop had brought a book that told
all about Egypt, and George listened while his uncle read aloud about
Memphis, which they would soon pass. Thousands of years ago it had
been another burial-place, when the haughty Pharaohs reigned in Egypt.
But the first thing that George knew, he had forgotten all about the
Pharaohs, and woke with a start in his big chair by the rattle of the
sails as they were dropped, while the dahabeah gently glided to the
landing-place, where the reis was to deliver some merchandise which he
had brought up to a dweller on the bank from a Cairo dealer in ironware.

From the landing-place on the river the party had time to take a ride
inland, and Nabul and Abdal had the donkeys all ready as soon as the
gangplank was pushed out. There was no trouble in getting the little
donkeys off the boat. The minute they saw the dry land they made a dash
for the shore. And weren't the donkey boys on the landing mad when they
saw that the strangers had brought their own donkeys. They howled and
shouted, and wanted to know how the Cairo donkeys could be expected to
carry the visitors through the sand and rough soil hereabouts.

However, they felt better when Mustapha picked out two of their
donkeys,--one for himself and the other for the two little
girls,--grumbling at the same time something about "too many children,"
but as Nabul whispered to Abdal, "Mustapha was like an old camel with a
hard mouth and a soft heart."

The little girls were wild with delight that they were going, too.
Menah sat with her feet hanging over one side and Zaida behind her with
her feet dangling down the other side of the little donkey.

Away went the little procession, the donkeys kicking up a cloud of
dust. The road wound through fields of grain, and along the roadside
were to be seen children guarding cows and goats and other animals, who
shouted merry greetings to our little friends as they passed by.

It was not long before Mustapha, who was riding ahead, called out,
"Now you can see the village, there between the palms," at the same
time pointing with his cane--which a dragoman is never without--to a
large grove of palm-trees they were approaching and amongst which were
huddled a lot of queer flat-roofed houses.

"I don't see anything but big stones," said George.

"Let's see who gets there first," cried Nabul; and giving the donkeys
a tap away the boys raced, the Pasha being the first to come to a halt
beside the palm-trees.

"Now I can see that one of the stones is a house, Uncle Ben," cried
George as they drew up closer.

There were some natives standing on the little landing of the minaret
of the mosque, which no village hereabouts is without, whether it
be large or small, and the children lost no time in following their
example and climbing up the crazy stairs which wound around inside the
slim tower.

The view round about was wonderfully varied. On one side stretched away
the sandy desert, where the Bedouin shepherds guarded their flocks of
goats, leading them from one little oasis to another, wherever they
could find enough herbage to make a meal. On the other side was the
flowering river-bottom of the Nile, one of the richest agricultural
regions in the world.

Just beside the mosque was a great grove of date palms, and George
thought it very strange, and very much to his liking, too, that he
could reach out his hand just beyond the gallery railing and pick the
golden dates. "How I should like to come up here every day," he said as
they made their way down to the ground.

Just before the entrance to the mosque was a great stone statue which
astonished George and his uncle very much. The natives, too, evidently
had a great regard for it, as they had planted a lot of low-growing,
flowering trees all about it, sheltering it as if it were in a bower.

"How long do you suppose it has been here, Uncle Ben?" asked George, as
he took his seat on the broad foot of the big statue.

"A long, long time, certainly, my boy," replied his uncle, "perhaps
thousands of years."

After admiring the great statue awhile longer they discovered Mustapha
sitting on the shady terrace of a coffee shop. He was drinking another
of those little cups of muddy-looking, sweetish Turkish coffee of which
the Egyptians are so fond. Uncle Ben, too, liked it very much, for it
was usually made of the purest of Mocha coffee which comes from the
other side of the Red Sea not far away from Egypt, so he too stopped
for a cup, the boys meanwhile wandering off with the little girls
quite by themselves.

When they all got back to the coffee shop again each of the children
had a little wicker cage or basket in which was imprisoned a chameleon,
a queer little beast like a lizard, which lives by catching flies and
insects.

The Egyptians have a superstition that to have a chameleon in the house
is almost as good as having a cat--and they are very fond of cats,
too. The cat catches rats and mice and the chameleon gathers in all
the stinging bugs and insects and flies. This chameleon is thus a very
useful little animal indeed. When frightened it changes the colour of
its skin instantaneously in a most remarkable manner. It takes on quite
a different colour from what it had a moment before. If it is lying on
a green leaf it becomes a green colour so like the leaf it can hardly
be seen, or if on the yellow sand or a gray stone it becomes yellow or
gray in turn. The children had bought the chameleons for a few small
coins from some native boys whose acquaintance they had made in their
stroll about the village.

Mustapha finally called out that they must go on if they wanted to get
back to the boat before dark.

The next morning George was awakened at daybreak by a funny sort of
singing and a great clucking of poultry. He dressed himself quickly and
ran out on deck. The crew had cast off from the moorings, and as the
big sail was being hoisted the sailors sang a slow, monotonous chant
with the words, "Pray, pray to Mohammed!" as a sort of chorus. In a few
minutes the dahabeah was again under way.

From the "menagerie" still came a clucking of distressed hens, a
snorting and braying of donkeys, mingled with the shouts of children.

"What can be the matter?" thought George as he hurried to the forward
end of the boat.

There a funny sight met his eyes! The pet snake had, by some means or
other, wriggled itself out between the slats of its box during the
night and eaten one of the hens, and now lay gorged and drowsy on the
deck, raising its head occasionally to give a feeble hiss at the other
chickens, who were clucking and fluttering about at the ends of their
cords, frightened out of what few wits a chicken has.

Nabul and Abdal were doing their best to pacify the donkeys, who showed
that they didn't like snakes either, by trying to back over the side of
the boat.

The cockatoo was swinging on his perch with every feather standing on
end, while Menah and Zaida stood huddled together on top of a box,
though they knew that the snake could not bite as his fangs had been
taken out.

In the middle of the commotion was Mustapha, angrily scolding the
sailor who owned the snake and who was cringing and bowing before the
dragoman, making all sorts of excuses for his snake.

"Do we buy fowls to feed thy snake?" demanded Mustapha angrily. "Thou
shalt pay the price of the chicken."

"Indeed, it was a fine fat hen and cost several piastres," put in
Mizram.

The sailor meanwhile was putting the sleepy snake back into its box,
calling it an "ingrate" and a "heartless viper" for thus causing its
master so much trouble.

"What a lot of talk over one chicken," laughed George when he was
telling his uncle about it. But this is just the way these people go on
over small things.

When things quieted down breakfast was served on deck, after which the
children hung on the railings and enjoyed watching the many things
of interest on the shores as the strong northerly breeze carried the
dahabeah swiftly along. Sometimes they passed so near the shore that
they could call to the little brown children paddling along the water's
edge, who would answer back greetings, and hold out their hands and
call out, "Backsheesh, give us backsheesh," which meant they wanted
pennies thrown to them.

Menah and Zaida were much interested in a group of girls who had
brought their big copper pots and water-jars down to the edge of the
river, and were scrubbing them while they chatted together, after which
they would fill the jars with water and balancing them on their heads
go gaily singing back to their homes.

"See the fisherman yonder, he is about to throw his net," cried Abdal,
pointing to a man who stood on the high bank with a large net gathered
up in his arms. With a swing of his arms the man skilfully flung the
net out into the river. It spread out into a great circle as it touched
the water. The boys explained to George how it was weighted with
stones, and as it slowly sank to the bottom it would imprison the fish
so they could not get away. One has to be very skilful to do that, they
said.

Sometimes the children would all gather around Mustapha and listen to
his wonderful tales. How when he was young he took long journeys on
camel-back far south in the great Lybian Desert, which they could see
stretching away on their right. Once, too, he had there killed a lion
which had chased him, and there were still lions to be found there,
but not so many as there used to be. When he told them how he had seen
crocodiles basking in the sun on the river banks, not so very far from
Cairo, the children clapped their hands and wanted to know if they
weren't going to see some crocodiles.

"And hippopotamuses, too?" asked George. But Mustapha shook his head
and said he thought not, that there was so much traffic and so many
steamboats and other craft on the river now that these animals had
been frightened away and were only found now in the Upper Nile, far
beyond where they were going. This disappointed the boys very much.

Then again to while away the time the little Egyptians would show
George how to play their games, while George in turn would attempt to
teach them some of the American children's games.

On several occasions the sailor brought his tame snake on the upper
deck and showed them all the wonderful tricks his pet could do. The
snake would follow him all around the deck, holding its head erect and
waving it about as if it liked the queer little tune the man whistled.
The sailor offered to let the snake wrap itself around the boys' arms,
but they would not agree to this, though they thought it amusing enough
to watch its tricks with its master.

Everybody was so much amused by the snake's tricks that Mustapha
amiably told the sailor he would not have to pay for the chicken it
had eaten.

Abdal had been telling the "little Effendi" so much about his home in
the country that George was anxious to see an Egyptian farm.

So the boys talked it over with Mustapha, and as the farm was not far
from the river Mustapha said it would be possible to stop off there for
a day or so on their way back.

Mustapha then busied himself all one day writing a letter to Abdal's
father, saying that he and his party would stop at his farm and telling
him what day the dahabeah would be at his landing, that he might make
preparations to welcome the American Effendis.

George wondered how Mustapha was going to send the letter, but just
then a big "steam dahabeah" passed them coming down the river crowded
with a lot of tourists. The reis said this was their chance to send
back Mustapha's letter. So he hailed it and as it slowed down he
ordered several of his crew to launch the small boat which the dahabeah
carried. This they did, and rowing over to the steamer threw the letter
on board as she steamed past them. So George thought there was some use
after all for a steamboat on the Nile, though it did seem out of place
and not at all as comfortable and picturesque way of travelling as by a
sailing vessel.

It was always a great event for the children when the boat was tied up
near some little village in order to lay in a new stock of provisions,
to get some grain to carry further on, or to deliver some which they
had brought from Cairo. They would all go on shore and it was great fun
watching the people who came from near-by farms bringing vegetables and
fruits and fowls to sell. They crowded around Mustapha, who did the
bargaining, shouting in a high voice the prices of their wares. At
each landing they always found the water-sellers who refilled the big
water-jars on board, from the goat-skin water-bags slung by a strap
over their shoulders. All the little children came trooping down from
the neighbouring villages to stare shyly at the strangers, often hiding
half-afraid behind their mother's gowns; but whether they were shy or
bold, all of them would hold out their hands for backsheesh; even the
babies perched on their mothers' shoulders held out their little hands,
though they could not speak a word.

"'Tis the strangers who have spoiled them," Mustapha said as he drove
away a crowd of little children who were pestering George at one little
village. "They throw coins to the little ones on the banks as they go
past on the great steamers; they mean it kindly, but it teaches our
little Egyptian children to beg and that makes them bad," and the fat
dragoman scowled at the village children until they shook in their
little slippers and ran away as fast as possible.

As they went farther up the river the green fields grew fewer and fewer
and the yellow sand of the deserts on both sides came nearer and nearer
the river.

One morning the _Isis_ rounded a sharp bend in the river and there
in the distance were a group of tall columns, rising from the bank
surrounded by houses and trees.

"'Tis Luxor, the site of the most wonderful ruins in all Egypt," said
Mustapha with pride.

Everybody crowded eagerly forward while Mustapha pointed out the places
of interest. First came the part of the town where the Egyptians live
and then the great hotels and gay shops, and finally, just at noon, our
dahabeah pushed its high prow in among a lot of other dahabeahs and
smaller craft, and tied up alongside the old temple with its row of a
hundred tall columns which towered high above them on the river bank.




CHAPTER V

AN EGYPTIAN FARM


THE little folks and the donkeys as well were wild to get on shore
again and stretch their legs a bit, for they had not left the boat
for several days. As soon as they could get away from the boat they
scampered off past the big hotels where many tourists were sitting on
the verandas and in the gardens sipping cool drinks just as they did at
Cairo.

Everywhere George and his uncle were followed around by people who
wanted to sell them relics which they said they had found in the
ancient ruins,--coins and scarabs and pottery, and all sorts of odd
things. Mustapha waved them all away. "Their antiquities are only
make-believes," he said, with contempt. "There are people who make
these imitations, and these fellows make a business by selling them to
travellers as real curiosities. Sometimes there were real treasures
that could be picked up at a bargain, but not so many as in the old
days," said Mustapha.

Sun-up next morning found our little party riding out on another
excursion. Mizram had packed many good things to eat in a big palm-leaf
basket covered over with green leaves to keep the things cool, and this
was slung across Teddy Pasha's broad back. Our friends were to have a
picnic among some riverside ruins.

Soon they were riding between two rows of stone figures; an avenue of
Sphinxes, like the great Sphinx at the Pyramids, only much smaller, and
in a few minutes more all dismounted at the entrance to a great temple.

Such a rabble surrounded them! Beggars clamouring for backsheesh,
people wanting to guide them through the ruins, and vendors of relics.
Mustapha and the boys had to use their sticks freely to make the crowd
stand back.

Two donkey boys promised to look after the donkeys, so after
threatening them with all sorts of dire punishments if any harm should
come to their animals, Nabul and his cousin ran after their little
American friend.

For several hours Mustapha led his little band in and out among the
great columns and across the broad courts of ancient temples. There
seemed to be thousands of these columns, some standing in long rows,
others lying broken on the ground. How the children stared at the
pictures painted on the walls by the old Egyptians, the colours as
fresh as if they had just been painted. Mustapha showed them how these
pictures made a regular story-book, if one only knew how to read them.
Here were a lot of pictures that told all about the doings of one of
the Pharaohs,--how he went to war and the battles he fought. There
were other pictures showing how he went hunting, and the various kinds
of animals and birds he had brought back with him from the chase.

The children thought it was most amusing to read a story-book like
that, and went about trying to make up stories for themselves out of
the pictures.

They stopped to watch a number of men hard at work among the ruins
lifting a fallen stone column. More than three hundred Egyptians were
working to set up the fallen columns and clear away the rubbish, and
they worked in much the same way as did the ancient Egyptians who built
the same temples. There were many young boys, too, helping to pull on
the long ropes by which the columns were raised.

"Come, let us hunt and perhaps we can find some relics for ourselves,"
said Nabul. "One of the donkey boys last year found a little statue."

"I would like to find a mummy," exclaimed George, as the boys went to
work prodding in the sand with their sticks.

"Mummies are too heavy to carry away," said Abdal, wisely shaking his
head.

"I should like to find a doll," whispered Menah to her sister as they
too turned over the sand in their little fingers, thinking of her own
curious little dolls at home fashioned after the same manner as those
frequently found among the ruins. "You remember the great traveller
who went with our father in the dahabeah to some old city? How he had
many men to dig in the sand for him, and how they found many wonderful
things there? Well, he said that often the dolls and toys that were
put in a little girl's tomb would be made of gold and silver," replied
Menah. "I should like a doll of real gold to play with."

Pretty soon the children tired of their search and stretched themselves
out in the shade of an enormous stone column to rest.

Our party made many excursions to see many other old ruins, and one day
Mustapha took them to see some funny camel races. It was the queerest
thing in the world to see the long-legged camels come swinging along,
covering yards and yards of ground at each step, each camel ridden by
an Arab in flowing white dress and head covering. After this there was
a race among the donkey boys. Nabul and Abdal were wild to join in
this, but found it was against the rules for outsiders to enter.

"They are jealous, they know we could beat these up-country donkeys,"
Nabul consoled himself with saying, but he hurrahed with everybody else
all the same when a lively little gray donkey, ridden by a small boy in
a green dress, reached the goal first and got the prize.

One morning early found the _Isis_ again sailing up the river
toward Assouan and the Great Cataract, which was to be their last
stopping-place.

When George and Uncle Ben arrived at Assouan it was market-day, and the
square by the riverside was filled with all sorts of queer people and
things.

For centuries lower Egypt had been periodically flooded and then dried
out again, and the poor native farmers and fellaheen had suffered
greatly, many, many thousands even dying of starvation. All the great
volume of water in the river Nile became at certain seasons a mere
trickling rivulet.

In late years a plan whereby all lower Egypt was to be properly
watered and drained has made even the poorest of the labourers of the
countryside happy and prosperous. This great benefit was brought about
by the building of a great dam just above Assouan, and as the water was
let through little by little in the dry season, and properly stored up
when it flowed in abundance, it proved to be just the treatment that
was needed to make an otherwise suffering people quite contented with
their lot.

"I want to see the great Assouan dam," said George one morning as he
and Uncle Ben were just finishing their breakfast. George was a most
inquiring little fellow, and he had heard some men talking of this
great work at the hotel, and he wanted to see for himself what it
really was.

George had become so expert with donkeys, that Uncle Ben called him
_his_ little donkey boy. Soon all was ready and Mustapha headed the
little procession that made its way quickly along through clouds of
dust and began struggling over a stony desert road.

Little Menah was riding behind George and Mustapha had been gracious
enough to let Zaida sit behind him. The reason of this was that the
donkey boys on the quay, who were a lot of wild young fellows from the
desert, had come to blows among themselves as to which of their number
should go with our party to supply the two extra donkeys required,
whereupon Mustapha said he wouldn't have any of them, that they were a
set of black heathens anyway,--for some were little negro boys from the
Soudan,--so he borrowed a donkey from a friend of his for himself, and
divided up the party in this way.

Mustapha was so big and fat and his donkey so small that poor little
Zaida had scarcely any room to sit comfortably. George could hear Menah
shaking with laughter at her sister's efforts to keep from slipping off
at every bounce the donkey gave.

Meanwhile Mustapha, quite unconscious that they were amused at him, was
gravely telling them that the high wall of bricks which followed their
road was the old-time boundary to Egypt and was built to keep back the
hordes of barbarians from the south, but now Egypt was a much greater
country and went far beyond this wall.

Soon they came into a little village on the bank of the river which
spread out here like a lake. The children laughed when they dismounted
and looked at each other. They were so covered with dust that the brown
little Egyptians looked white. They shouted and clapped their hands
with glee when Mustapha told them to get into a big boat painted with
the brightest colours. Six tall black Soudanese, dressed in white, with
red fezes, pulled at the oars, keeping time to a queer sort of chant.
The children were so busy watching the rowers that, before they knew
it, they were gliding past a tiny temple that seemed to be rising out
of the water.

"This is the ancient temple of Philæ, one of the most beautiful in
Egypt," said Mustapha. "It is on an island, but since the great dam of
Assouan was built the island itself is covered by water, and if the
dam is raised still higher, as they talk of doing, the little temple
will be entirely covered with water, or perhaps destroyed, which would
be a pity."

On arriving at the great dam they got into another boat which took them
over the First Cataract, or waterfall, on the Nile. Not over the worst
part of it by any means, but quite "scary" enough for the little girls.
Shortly after they were again back at Assouan.

George would have liked to have kept on up the river to the city
of Khartoum, where there is a great school or college erected as a
memorial to General Gordon, who opened up and first introduced outside
civilization into these parts, but their plans would not permit of
spending the extra time. To-day this magnificent school is filled with
intelligent, hard-working Egyptian boys who, when they leave college
and go out among their fellows, do much to benefit and lift them from
the ignorance and superstition which formerly existed.

So the _Isis_ was headed for home, and the good dahabeah raced along,
borne by the strong current of the river, as if it knew it was on its
way home. The happy days passed quickly and our little friends had many
adventures of which there is not time to tell you.

As they came to the wide fertile country above Cairo, and neared
Abdal's home, the children were on a sharp lookout, and Abdal was
wondering who would come down to the river to meet them. When the
_Isis_ did run her sharp prow into the bulrushes at the little
landing-place for the farm of Abdal's father, where Mustapha proposed
to stop, not only were all of Mustapha's friends there, but most of
the villagers besides, and they all gave the visitors the heartiest of
welcomes. There was Abdal's father and mother and the baby, and his
little brother, who kissed him on both cheeks, and each in turn took
the hand of each visitor, kissing his own hand at the same time, a
pretty little custom among these people.

After the actual landing Uncle Ben and George mounted the donkeys,
and followed by the others on foot, all talking and in the highest
spirits, they rode for some distance through great fields of cotton and
rice until they came to a little village nestled away in the midst of
palm-trees.

Here they stopped at Abdal's father's house, which was the biggest in
the village, for Ali-Hijaz was the chief man of the little village and
had many "fellaheen," or labourers, working in his cotton, rice, and
cane fields.

Ali-Hijaz's house, like all the houses in the village, was built of mud
bricks, which had first been baked by the sun; it was thatched with
palm-leaves, and the trunks of palm-trees strengthened the walls and
formed the rafters. Their host invited them into a large room, where
they all seated themselves on mats spread on the hard earthen floor.
While Ali-Hijaz offered Mr. Winthrop a long-stemmed pipe to smoke,
Abdal and Nabul ran to the little Arab café of the village and soon
came back bringing a big metal tray on which were a number of small
cups and tiny tin pots of coffee. This was put in the middle of the
floor and each person was served with a cup and one of the little pots
of coffee. Menah and Zaida amused themselves playing with the baby,
while their two mothers gossiped together, and George made friends with
Abdal's little brother Amad, whom he thought looked very cunning in his
white cotton gown and little turban stuck on his clean-shaven head.

"Just think, Uncle Ben," laughed George, "he can barely walk and yet he
goes to the village school at _five_ o'clock in the morning and stays
till sundown, only coming home for dinner in the middle of the day.
Whew! but that's hard work!"

"And then, all he learns is to recite the Koran--the Mohammedan
Bible--at the top of his voice," replied Mr. Winthrop.

[Illustration: "A LAZY-LOOKING OLD CAMEL WAS SLOWLY TURNING A GREAT
CREAKING WOODEN WHEEL."]

"That little mite!" said George with a mock groan. "Well, I am glad I
go to school in America."

But Amad seemed to grow fat in spite of it, and was at the head of the
procession when the children trooped out to see the village. All the
houses looked alike, with only one big wooden door and no windows,
just little slits in the walls for air and light. Within most of these
houses there was no furniture of any kind, save some rugs, mats, and
cooking utensils, and a few boxes made of the wood of the palm-tree, in
which to keep the family clothes. Abdal's father had two European beds
in his house which he had brought from Cairo, but the villagers had no
use for such new-fangled things. As they walked along all the little
village children ran out to talk to Abdal and followed them until, as
Nabul said, the procession looked like a kite with a long tail. There
were almost as many dogs as children, and George fought rather shy
of the fierce-looking mongrel curs that barked at their heels.

Abdal took them into the fields where there was a "sakiyeh," or
water-wheel, by which the fields are watered. A lazy-looking old camel
was slowly turning a great creaking wooden wheel, and this turned
another wheel on the rim of which were fastened a lot of earthen jars.
These jars were filled with water as the wheel went down into a sort
of well, and as it came up the water from the jars was emptied into a
ditch which carried it over the fields in every direction.

Here for the first time George saw a camel ploughing, and such a funny
plough it was! Just a log of wood with a pointed iron tip at one end
and an upright pole at the other, by which the ploughman could guide it.

When they got back to the home at sunset they found Ali-Hijaz had
persuaded Mr. Winthrop to stay a day or two, as there was some good
bird shooting in his rice fields, a sport of which Uncle Ben was very
fond. This pleased the children, and that evening they had lots of
fun playing one of their games called "Playing Pasha." They elected
a "Pasha," and the choice fell on George, whom they put in a kind of
litter made of palm branches. Four of their number carried this on
their shoulders while the rest ran beside carrying lighted wisps of
straw and hay for make-believe torches. One of the boys meanwhile beat
a drum, and another played a small flute; and thus they marched around
the village until the torches were all burned out and their mothers
called them to bed.

The two guests were made comfortable in one of the beds, which were
only kept for grand occasions like this, and early the next morning Mr.
Winthrop and his host, with Mustapha, were off to shoot rice birds.

"We will go and see the wild pigeons," said Abdal, as the boys wondered
how they should amuse themselves. "I know where there are many of them
roosting in the trees."

"Good," answered Nabul, clapping his hands, and the boys started off
across the fields. The Egyptian folk are very fond of the wild pigeons
of the country, and like to catch them and keep them for pets.

At the same time many of the Egyptian boys, too, are so cruel as to
hunt these gentle birds, killing them with stones which they throw with
unerring aim.

"Hist! they roost here," whispered Abdal as they came to a clump of low
trees. Just then a number of pigeons flew out of the trees; at the same
time, to the great surprise of the boys, one apparently was injured,
and fell to the ground, and Nabul ran to pick it up. Some one had
evidently injured its leg or wing. Just then two wild, savage-looking
young boys came dashing up to Nabul crying, "Thou hast killed one of
our tame pigeons, our father shall beat thee," trying at the same time
to snatch the bird away from Nabul.

"'Tis not true," returned Nabul angrily, "dost thou think I am such a
dullard as not to know a wild pigeon from a tame one?"

"And I know these birds well, I have often been here, they always roost
in these trees," exclaimed Abdal. "I know thee, and I know that thy
pigeons are far from here."

The Egyptians in the country usually tame many of these pigeons, and
build them little houses to live in on the side of their own, and
sometimes one will see a big mud tower in the village where hundreds of
these pigeons live and build their nests.

In the midst of the dispute a tall man with an ugly, scowling face
strode up with a stick, so, thinking things were getting too hot for
them, our little friends turned and fled toward the village, Nabul,
however, triumphantly holding on to the pigeon.

The other hunting party had brought back a big bag of birds and were
well pleased with the day's work.

The next day they were to take leave of their kind hosts and go back to
the _Isis_. When George awakened in the early morning, such a wailing
met his ears he could only imagine that some one must be dead. Throwing
on his clothes he rushed down the short flight of steps that led from
his room to the big room on the ground floor and from there into the
yard. There he saw Nabul lying face downward on the ground beside the
stable door, with his sisters sitting beside him rocking themselves
backwards and forwards and wailing piteously, while Abdal and the older
people rushed wildly about all talking at once.

"What is the matter? Nabul, are you hurt?" cried George, rushing up to
the little group.

"Teddy Pasha is gone, some thief has stolen him," they all cried in one
breath.

It was only too true, the little donkey had mysteriously disappeared
in the night. Nabul had got up early to get the Pasha ready for their
return to the boat. He had found the little donkey gone, as well as his
bridle and saddle; Nabul had been looking for him ever since and had
just come back broken-hearted.

"Oh, Nabul, we are sure to find him! Come and we will all look," cried
George, nearly ready to cry himself,--he had grown really attached to
his little steed.

Poor little Nabul lifted up a wobegone face and slowly rose to his
feet. His donkey was like a brother to him, and he felt he would never
see him again.

No one thought of going back to the boat until the little donkey was
found, and the whole village turned out to search for him.

Suddenly Nabul struck his forehead with his hand. "I know now! Those
two ruffian boys we saw yesterday! 'Tis they who have stolen my
donkey. The wretches! This is their revenge! We will go to their house
and demand news of the Pasha," cried the distracted little boy.

"Follow, I know the way," said Abdal. The boys hurried through the
fields and rice swamps until they came to a tumbled-down group of mud
huts. No one was in sight save an ugly-looking brute of a dog and a
little girl, who peered at the strangers from behind a corner of a wall.

Nabul boldly went up and shook the heavy wooden door of the house and
called loudly, but it was tightly fastened and no one answered. He then
gave the whistle he always used to call Teddy Pasha, but only the dog
began to bark.

George was for battering in the door, but the boys said it was no use.
"Teddy is not here, or he would have answered me," sighed Nabul, as he
turned away sorrowfully, "but they have stolen him, I am sure."

"They would not dare keep him here so near our village," replied Abdal.
"They have doubtless put him in some hiding-place far off. That is
their sister," he continued, pointing to the little girl behind the
wall. "Where art thy brothers?" he demanded, but she only laughed and
made a face at them.

"She knows something," said George, making a face in return at the
child. But there was nothing for them to do but walk away and keep on
with their search.

At sundown the boys returned home and poor Nabul sat on the ground with
his head buried in his arms, refusing to be consoled. He had eaten
nothing all day, and when his mother brought him a nice dish of curds
she had made herself, he only shook his head.

It was a miserable household and nobody slept much that night. George
and Abdal refused to go to bed at all and sat beside Nabul in the big
room. Just as George was dozing away at daybreak he was roused up by a
terrible bray just outside the door, answered by one from Bobs in the
stable.

Like a flash Nabul, who had heard it too, tore open the house door and
nearly tumbled over Teddy Pasha, who calmly walked into the middle of
the room and stood there as much as to say, "Here I am, at last."

Little Nabul gave a shriek of joy and threw his arms about the little
donkey's neck and cried and laughed in the same breath. Abdal called
out the good news, and in another moment everybody was petting Teddy
Pasha and making as much to-do over him as if he were a long-lost
member of the family. As for the little American, he was as happy as
could be to see the little companion of his wanderings once more.

But the poor little donkey, wasn't he a sight, all covered with mud! He
had evidently been taken away and hidden in the rice swamps; his pretty
bridle and saddle were gone, and only a dirty and knotted piece of
rope was around his neck. An ugly cut on one of his feet showed where
he had been hobbled; his captors had evidently done everything to keep
him secure, but in spite of it he had broken away by some means or
other, and had come straight back to his master.

After leaving Abdal's family, and just as our party were going on board
the dahabeah, Nabul picked up an odd greenish pebble. "What a funny
looking stone!" he said. "It looks just like a beetle."

"That is what the learned ones call a scarab,--don't you know there are
many of these in the big museum at Cairo?" cried Abdal, as the children
bent over the tiny stone.

"Oh! maybe it is old," exclaimed George eagerly, "and worth lots and
lots of money."

Just at that moment a party of learned looking men, Europeans, came
up the bank from their dahabeah which had tied up just below the
_Isis_. At their head was a Frenchman, an inspector of the Egyptian
public monuments. With his party he was going some miles inland to pass
judgment upon some newly discovered ruins of which he had recently
heard.

"Let us go and ask the great Frenchman, he surely can tell us," and so
saying, Nabul ran back to where Mr. Winthrop and the Frenchman were
already talking together.

"Please, monsieur, is this old?" said Nabul, in his queer French,
holding up the little pebble carved in the form of the sacred beetle of
the Egyptians.

"Eh!" said the great man, taking the beetle in his hand. "Is it old,
indeed!" he exclaimed in great excitement. "It is a sacred scarab. Most
rare! There are only two others like it in the world. Where did you
find it, _mon petit_?"

Nabul pointed out the spot where he had found the stone.

"_Voila!_ and to think that I have already passed over that spot and
did not know one of the most ancient and most wonderful scarabs known
to the world was lying there!" and the great man paced up and down,
running his hands through his hair.

"_Mon petit_," the Frenchman said at last, stopping in front of Nabul,
"you know the great museum at Cairo? Well, if you will take this little
stone to the gentleman who is in charge there, he will be very glad to
have it, and the authorities of the museum will reward you handsomely;
it is worth more than money to them. I will give you a letter, which
you must also give to this gentleman," and so saying the Frenchman took
a pencil out of his pocket, and, tearing a leaf out of a small blank
book, quickly wrote a few words and gave it to Nabul. "I will write him
myself at once," he continued, "but I beg of you to guard the scarab
most carefully. I rely on you to see that he does not lose it," said
the Frenchman, turning earnestly to Mr. Winthrop. "It does not seem
fair to take it from him unless I at once took it myself to Cairo, and
it is impossible for me to leave here now."

Mr. Winthrop and all of them promised, for they were all now interested
in the wonderful stone, and Nabul proudly and carefully hid it inside
his embroidered vest.

There was a happy little party on the dahabeah when she set sail again,
and many were the farewells to the kind people of the little village,
who all came to see them off.

And wasn't Teddy Pasha a spoiled and pampered little donkey! He was
petted and fed and rubbed down by everybody on board until he not only
looked as fine and sleek as ever, but also got so fat and lazy that
Mustapha doubted if he would ever be willing to do any more work.

At last the _Isis_ floated up to her moorings at Cairo, and everybody
felt that they were home again. The first thing George did was to buy
the finest donkey saddle and bridle he could find in Cairo and give to
Teddy Pasha, who thereupon got vainer than ever. George and his little
Egyptian friends took many more rides together before he and Uncle Ben
went back to America. They all went together when Nabul carried the
wonderful scarab and the Frenchman's letter to the great man in the big
museum, who talked very wisely about it. He thanked Nabul and told him
he had done his country a service, and used a lot of long words that
the children could not understand. But one day, not long afterward, a
man in a fine uniform came riding in great style up to Nabul's house
and gave little Nabul a sealed packet from the authorities of the big
museum, and in it was a handsome sum of money for the little donkey boy
who found the wonderful scarab.

It was enough indeed to set him up as a dragoman when he was older,
but this would not be, Nabul promised himself, until he had first made
a visit to see his little friend, George, in that wonderful country
over the sea.

And thus it happened that the Little American Cousin really did bring
the good fortune to little Nabul, the youngest donkey boy in the big
city of Cairo.


    THE END.




THE LITTLE COLONEL BOOKS

(Trade Mark)

_By ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON_

  _Each 1 vol., large 12mo, cloth, illustrated, per vol._    $1.50


    =THE LITTLE COLONEL STORIES=
          (Trade Mark)

Being three "Little Colonel" stories in the Cosy Corner Series, "The
Little Colonel," "Two Little Knights of Kentucky," and "The Giant
Scissors," put into a single volume.

    =THE LITTLE COLONEL'S HOUSE PARTY=
          (Trade Mark)

    =THE LITTLE COLONEL'S HOLIDAYS=
          (Trade Mark)

    =THE LITTLE COLONEL'S HERO=
          (Trade Mark)

    =THE LITTLE COLONEL AT BOARDING SCHOOL=
          (Trade Mark)

    =THE LITTLE COLONEL IN ARIZONA=
          (Trade Mark)

    =THE LITTLE COLONEL'S CHRISTMAS VACATION=
          (Trade Mark)

    =THE LITTLE COLONEL, MAID OF HONOUR=
          (Trade Mark)

    =THE LITTLE COLONEL'S KNIGHT COMES RIDING=
          (Trade Mark)

    =MARY WARE: THE LITTLE COLONEL'S CHUM=
          (Trade Mark)

    _These ten volumes, boxed as a ten-volume set._      $15.00


    =THE LITTLE COLONEL=
          (Trade Mark)

    =TWO LITTLE KNIGHTS OF KENTUCKY=

    =THE GIANT SCISSORS=

    =BIG BROTHER=


Special Holiday Editions

    Each one volume, cloth decorative, small quarto, $1.25

New plates, handsomely illustrated with eight full-page drawings in
color, and many marginal sketches.


=IN THE DESERT OF WAITING:= THE LEGEND OF CAMELBACK MOUNTAIN.


=THE THREE WEAVERS:= A FAIRY TALE FOR FATHERS AND MOTHERS AS WELL AS
FOR THEIR DAUGHTERS.


=KEEPING TRYST=


=THE LEGEND OF THE BLEEDING HEART=


=THE RESCUE OF PRINCESS WINSOME:= A FAIRY PLAY FOR OLD AND YOUNG.


=THE JESTER'S SWORD=

    Each one volume, tall 16mo, cloth decorative      $0.50
    Paper boards                                        .35

There has been a constant demand for publication in separate form of
these six stories, which were originally included in six of the "Little
Colonel" books.


=JOEL: A BOY OF GALILEE:= By ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON. Illustrated by L.
J. Bridgman.

  New illustrated edition, uniform with the Little
      Colonel Books, 1 vol., large 12mo, cloth decorative    $1.50

A story of the time of Christ, which is one of the author's best-known
books.


=THE LITTLE COLONEL GOOD TIMES BOOK=

    Uniform in size with the Little Colonel Series      $1.50
    Bound in white kid (morocco) and gold                3.00

Cover design and decorations by Amy Carol Rand.

The publishers have had many inquiries from readers of the Little
Colonel books as to where they could obtain a "Good Times Book" such as
Betty kept. Mrs. Johnston, who has for years kept such a book herself,
has gone enthusiastically into the matter of the material and format
for a similar book for her young readers. Every girl will want to
possess a "Good Times Book."


=ASA HOLMES:= OR, AT THE CROSS-ROADS. A sketch of Country Life and
Country Humor. By ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON.

With a frontispiece by Ernest Fosbery.

    Large 16mo, cloth, gilt top      $1.00

"'Asa Holmes; or, At the Cross-Roads' is the most delightful, most
sympathetic and wholesome book that has been published in a long
while."--_Boston Times._


=THE RIVAL CAMPERS:= OR, THE ADVENTURES OF HENRY BURNS. By RUEL PERLEY
SMITH.

    Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

A story of a party of typical American lads, courageous, alert, and
athletic, who spend a summer camping on an island off the Maine coast.


=THE RIVAL CAMPERS AFLOAT:= OR, THE PRIZE YACHT VIKING. By RUEL PERLEY
SMITH.

    Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

This book is a continuation of the adventures of "The Rival Campers" on
their prize yacht _Viking_.



=THE RIVAL CAMPERS ASHORE=

By RUEL PERLEY SMITH.

    Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

"As interesting ashore as when afloat."--_The Interior._


=JACK HARVEY'S ADVENTURES:= OR, THE RIVAL CAMPERS AMONG THE OYSTER
PIRATES. By RUEL PERLEY SMITH.

    Illustrated      $1.50

"Just the type of book which is most popular with lads who are in their
early teens."--_The Philadelphia Item._


=PRISONERS OF FORTUNE:= A Tale of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. By RUEL
PERLEY SMITH.

    Cloth decorative, with a colored frontispiece      $1.50

"There is an atmosphere of old New England in the book, the
humor of the born raconteur about the hero, who tells his story
with the gravity of a preacher, but with a solemn humor that is
irresistible."--_Courier-Journal._


=FAMOUS CAVALRY LEADERS.= By CHARLES H. L. JOHNSTON.

    Large 12mo. With 24 illustrations      $1.50

Biographical sketches, with interesting anecdotes and reminiscences of
the heroes of history who were leaders of cavalry.

"More of such books should be written, books that acquaint young
readers with historical personages in a pleasant informal way."--_N. Y.
Sun._


=FAMOUS INDIAN CHIEFS.= By CHARLES H. L. JOHNSTON.

    Large 12mo, illustrated      $1.50

In this book Mr. Johnston gives interesting sketches of the Indian
braves who have figured with prominence in the history of our own land,
including Powhatan, the Indian Cæsar; Massasoit, the friend of the
Puritans; Pontiac, the red Napoleon; Tecumseh, the famous war chief
of the Shawnees; Sitting Bull, the famous war chief of the Sioux;
Geronimo, the renowned Apache Chief, etc., etc.


=BILLY'S PRINCESS.= By HELEN EGGLESTON HASKELL.

  Cloth decorative, illustrated by Helen McCormick Kennedy      $1.25

Billy Lewis was a small boy of energy and ambition, so when he was left
alone and unprotected, he simply started out to take care of himself.


=TENANTS OF THE TREES.= By CLARENCE HAWKES.

    Cloth decorative, illustrated in colors      $1.50

"A book which will appeal to all who care for the hearty, healthy,
outdoor life of the country. The illustrations are particularly
attractive."--_Boston Herald._


=BEAUTIFUL JOE'S PARADISE:= OR, THE ISLAND OF BROTHERLY LOVE. A sequel
to "Beautiful Joe." By MARSHALL SAUNDERS, author of "Beautiful Joe."

    One vol., library 12mo, cloth, illustrated      $1.50

"This book revives the spirit of 'Beautiful Joe' capitally. It is
fairly riotous with fun, and is about as unusual as anything in the
animal book line that has seen the light."--_Philadelphia Item._


='TILDA JANE.= By MARSHALL SAUNDERS.

    One vol., 12mo, fully illustrated, cloth decorative, $1.50

"I cannot think of any better book for children than this. I commend it
unreservedly."--_Cyrus Townsend Brady._


='TILDA JANE'S ORPHANS.= A sequel to 'Tilda Jane. By MARSHALL SAUNDERS.

    One vol., 12mo, fully illustrated, cloth decorative, $1.50

'Tilda Jane is the same original, delightful girl, and as fond of her
animal pets as ever.


=THE STORY OF THE GRAVELEYS.= By MARSHALL SAUNDERS, author of
"Beautiful Joe's Paradise," "'Tilda Jane," etc.

  Library 12mo, cloth decorative. Illustrated by E. B. Barry    $1.50

Here we have the haps and mishaps, the trials and triumphs, of a
delightful New England family, of whose devotion and sturdiness it will
do the reader good to hear.


=BORN TO THE BLUE.= By FLORENCE KIMBALL RUSSEL.

    12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.25

The atmosphere of army life on the plains breathes on every page of
this delightful tale. The boy is the son of a captain of U. S. cavalry
stationed at a frontier post in the days when our regulars earned the
gratitude of a nation.


=IN WEST POINT GRAY=

By FLORENCE KIMBALL RUSSEL.

    12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

"Singularly enough one of the best books of the year for boys is
written by a woman and deals with life at West Point. The presentment
of life in the famous military academy whence so many heroes have
graduated is realistic and enjoyable."--_New York Sun._


=FROM CHEVRONS TO SHOULDER STRAPS=

By FLORENCE KIMBALL RUSSEL.

    12mo, cloth, illustrated, decorative      $1.50

West Point again forms the background of a new volume in this popular
series, and relates the experience of Jack Stirling during his junior
and senior years.


=THE SANDMAN: HIS FARM STORIES=

By WILLIAM J. HOPKINS. With fifty illustrations by Ada Clendenin
Williamson.

    Large 12mo, decorative cover      $1.50

"An amusing, original book, written for the benefit of very small
children. It should be one of the most popular of the year's books for
reading to small children."--_Buffalo Express._


=THE SANDMAN: MORE FARM STORIES=

By WILLIAM J. HOPKINS.

    Large 12mo, decorative cover, fully illustrated      $1.50

Mr. Hopkins's first essay at bedtime stories met with such approval
that this second book of "Sandman" tales was issued for scores of eager
children. Life on the farm, and out-of-doors, is portrayed in his
inimitable manner.


=THE SANDMAN: HIS SHIP STORIES=

By WILLIAM J. HOPKINS, author of "The Sandman: His Farm Stories," etc.

    Large 12mo, decorative cover, fully illustrated      $1.50

"Children call for these stories over and over again."--_Chicago
Evening Post._


=THE SANDMAN, HIS SEA STORIES=

By WILLIAM J. HOPKINS.

    Large 12mo, decorative cover, fully illustrated      $1.50

Each year adds to the popularity of this unique series of stories to be
read to the little ones at bed time and at other times.


=THE DOCTOR'S LITTLE GIRL=

By MARION AMES TAGGART, author of "Pussy-Cat Town," etc.

    One vol., library 12mo, illustrated      $1.50

A thoroughly enjoyable tale of a little girl and her comrade father,
written in a delightful vein of sympathetic comprehension of the
child's point of view.


=SWEET NANCY=

THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF THE DOCTOR'S LITTLE GIRL. By MARION AMES
TAGGART.

    One vol., library 12mo, illustrated      $1.50

In the new book, the author tells how Nancy becomes in fact "the
doctor's assistant," and continues to shed happiness around her.


=THE CHRISTMAS-MAKERS' CLUB=

By EDITH A. SAWYER.

    12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

A delightful story for girls, full of the real spirit of Christmas. It
abounds in merrymaking and the right kind of fun.


=CARLOTA=

A STORY OF THE SAN GABRIEL MISSION. By Frances Margaret Fox.

  Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated and decorated
        in colors by Ethelind Ridgway                        $1.00

"It is a pleasure to recommend this little story as an entertaining
contribution to juvenile literature."--_The New York Sun._


=THE SEVEN CHRISTMAS CANDLES=

By FRANCES MARGARET FOX.

  Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated and decorated
        in colors by Ethelind Ridgway                        $1.00

Miss Fox's new book deals with the fortunes of the delightful Mulvaney
children.


=PUSSY-CAT TOWN=

By MARION AMES TAGGART.

  Small quarto, cloth decorative, illustrated and decorated
        in colors                                             $1.00

"Anything more interesting than the doings of the cats in this
story, their humor, their wisdom, their patriotism, would be hard to
imagine."--_Chicago Post._


=THE ROSES OF SAINT ELIZABETH=

By JANE SCOTT WOODRUFF.

  Small quarto, cloth decorative, illustrated and decorated
        in colors by Adelaide Everhart                       $1.00

This is a charming little story of a child whose father was caretaker
of the great castle of the Wartburg, where Saint Elizabeth once had her
home.


=GABRIEL AND THE HOUR BOOK=

By EVALEEN STEIN.

  Small quarto, cloth decorative, illustrated and decorated
        in colors by Adelaide Everhart                        $1.00

Gabriel was a loving, patient, little French lad, who assisted the
monks in the long ago days, when all the books were written and
illuminated by hand, in the monasteries.


=THE ENCHANTED AUTOMOBILE=

Translated from the French by MARY J. SAFFORD.

  Small quarto, cloth decorative, illustrated and decorated
        in colors by Edna M. Sawyer                          $1.00

"An up-to-date French fairy-tale which fairly radiates the spirit of
the hour,--unceasing diligence."--_Chicago Record-Herald._


=O-HEART-SAN=

THE STORY OF A JAPANESE GIRL. By HELEN EGGLESTON HASKELL.

  Small quarto, cloth decorative, illustrated and decorated
        in colors by Frank P. Fairbanks                      $1.00

"The story comes straight from the heart of Japan. The shadow of
Fujiyama lies across it and from every page breathes the fragrance
of tea leaves, cherry blossoms and chrysanthemums."--_The Chicago
Inter-Ocean._


=THE YOUNG SECTION-HAND:= OR, THE ADVENTURES OF ALLAN WEST. By BURTON
E. STEVENSON.

    Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

Mr. Stevenson's hero is a manly lad of sixteen, who is given a chance
as a section-hand on a big Western railroad, and whose experiences are
as real as they are thrilling.


=THE YOUNG TRAIN DISPATCHER.= By BURTON E. STEVENSON.

    Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

"A better book for boys has never left an American
press."--_Springfield Union._


=THE YOUNG TRAIN MASTER.= By BURTON E. STEVENSON.

    Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

"Nothing better in the way of a book of adventure for boys in which the
actualities of life are set forth in a practical way could be devised
or written."--_Boston Herald._


=CAPTAIN JACK LORIMER.= By WINN STANDISH.

    Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

Jack is a fine example of the all-around American high-school boy.


=JACK LORIMER'S CHAMPIONS:= OR, SPORTS ON LAND AND LAKE. By WINN
STANDISH.

    Square 12mo, cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

"It is exactly the sort of book to give a boy interested in athletics,
for it shows him what it means to always 'play fair.'"--_Chicago
Tribune._


=JACK LORIMER'S HOLIDAYS:= OR, MILLVALE HIGH IN CAMP. By WINN STANDISH.

    Illustrated      $1.50

Full of just the kind of fun, sports and adventure to excite the
healthy minded youngster to emulation.


=JACK LORIMER'S SUBSTITUTE:= OR, THE ACTING CAPTAIN OF THE TEAM. By
WINN STANDISH.

    Illustrated      $1.50

On the sporting side, this book takes up football, wrestling,
tobogganing, but it is more of a _school_ story perhaps than any of its
predecessors.


=CAPTAIN JINKS:= THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A SHETLAND PONY. By FRANCES
HODGES WHITE.

    Cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

The story of Captain Jinks and his faithful dog friend Billy, their
quaint conversations and their exciting adventures, will be eagerly
read by thousands of boys and girls. The story is beautifully written
and will take its place alongside of "Black Beauty" and "Beautiful Joe."


=THE RED FEATHERS.= By THEODORE ROBERTS.

    Cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

"The Red Feathers" tells of the remarkable adventures of an Indian boy
who lived in the Stone Age, many years ago, when the world was young.


=FLYING PLOVER.= By THEODORE ROBERTS.

  Cloth decorative. Illustrated by Charles Livingston Bull    $1.00

Squat-By-The-Fire is a very old and wise Indian who lives alone with
her grandson, "Flying Plover," to whom she tells the stories each
evening.


=THE WRECK OF THE OCEAN QUEEN.= By JAMES OTIS, author of "Larry
Hudson's Ambition," etc.

    Cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

"A stirring story of wreck and mutiny, which boys will find especially
absorbing. The many young admirers of James Otis will not let this book
escape them, for it fully equals its many predecessors in excitement
and sustained interest."--_Chicago Evening Post._


=LITTLE WHITE INDIANS.= By FANNIE E. OSTRANDER.

    Cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.25

"A bright, interesting story which will appeal strongly to the
'make-believe' instinct in children, and will give them a healthy,
active interest in 'the simple life.'"


=MARCHING WITH MORGAN.= HOW DONALD LOVELL BECAME A SOLDIER OF THE
REVOLUTION. By JOHN L. VEASY.

    Cloth decorative, illustrated      $1.50

This is a splendid boy's story of the expedition of Montgomery and
Arnold against Quebec.




COSY CORNER SERIES


It is the intention of the publishers that this series shall contain
only the very highest and purest literature,--stories that shall not
only appeal to the children themselves, but be appreciated by all those
who feel with them in their joys and sorrows.

The numerous illustrations in each book are by well-known artists, and
each volume has a separate attractive cover design.

    Each 1 vol., 16mo, cloth      $0.50


_By ANNIE FELLOWS JOHNSTON_

=THE LITTLE COLONEL= (=Trade Mark.=)

The scene of this story is laid in Kentucky. Its heroine is a small
girl, who is known as the Little Colonel, on account of her fancied
resemblance to an old-school Southern gentleman, whose fine estate and
old family are famous in the region.


=THE GIANT SCISSORS=

This is the story of Joyce and of her adventures in France. Joyce is a
great friend of the Little Colonel, and in later volumes shares with
her the delightful experiences of the "House Party" and the "Holidays."


=TWO LITTLE KNIGHTS OF KENTUCKY=

WHO WERE THE LITTLE COLONEL'S NEIGHBORS.

In this volume the Little Colonel returns to us like an old friend, but
with added grace and charm. She is not, however, the central figure of
the story, that place being taken by the "two little knights."


=MILDRED'S INHERITANCE=

A delightful little story of a lonely English girl who comes to America
and is befriended by a sympathetic American family who are attracted by
her beautiful speaking voice. By means of this one gift she is enabled
to help a school-girl who has temporarily lost the use of her eyes, and
thus finally her life becomes a busy, happy one.


=CICELY AND OTHER STORIES FOR GIRLS=

The readers of Mrs. Johnston's charming juveniles will be glad to learn
of the issue of this volume for young people.


=AUNT 'LIZA'S HERO AND OTHER STORIES=

A collection of six bright little stories, which will appeal to all
boys and most girls.


=BIG BROTHER=

A story of two boys. The devotion and care of Stephen, himself a small
boy, for his baby brother, is the theme of the simple tale.


=OLE MAMMY'S TORMENT=

"Ole Mammy's Torment" has been fitly called "a classic of Southern
life." It relates the haps and mishaps of a small negro lad, and tells
how he was led by love and kindness to a knowledge of the right.


=THE STORY OF DAGO=

In this story Mrs. Johnston relates the story of Dago, a pet monkey,
owned jointly by two brothers. Dago tells his own story, and the
account of his haps and mishaps is both interesting and amusing.


=THE QUILT THAT JACK BUILT=

A pleasant little story of a boy's labor of love and how it changed the
course of his life many years after it was accomplished.


=FLIP'S ISLANDS OF PROVIDENCE=

A story of a boy's life battle, his early defeat, and his final
triumph, well worth the reading.


_By EDITH ROBINSON_


=A LITTLE PURITAN'S FIRST CHRISTMAS=

A story of Colonial times in Boston, telling how Christmas was invented
by Betty Sewall, a typical child of the Puritans, aided by her brother
Sam.


=A LITTLE DAUGHTER OF LIBERTY=

The author introduces this story as follows:

"One ride is memorable in the early history of the American Revolution,
the well-known ride of Paul Revere. Equally deserving of commendation
is another ride,--the ride of Anthony Severn,--which was no less
historic in its action or memorable in its consequences."


=A LOYAL LITTLE MAID=

A delightful and interesting story of Revolutionary days, in which the
child heroine, Betsey Schuyler, renders important services to George
Washington.


=A LITTLE PURITAN REBEL=

This is an historical tale of a real girl, during the time when the
gallant Sir Harry Vane was governor of Massachusetts.


=A LITTLE PURITAN PIONEER=

The scene of this story is laid in the Puritan settlement at
Charlestown.


=A LITTLE PURITAN BOUND GIRL=

A story of Boston in Puritan days, which is of great interest to
youthful readers.


=A LITTLE PURITAN CAVALIER=

The story of a "Little Puritan Cavalier" who tried with all his boyish
enthusiasm to emulate the spirit and ideals of the dead Crusaders.


=A PURITAN KNIGHT ERRANT=

The story tells of a young lad in Colonial times who endeavored to
carry out the high ideals of the knights of olden days.


_By OUIDA_ (_Louise de la Ramee_)


=A DOG OF FLANDERS=

A CHRISTMAS STORY

Too well and favorably known to require description.


=THE NURNBERG STOVE=

This beautiful story has never before been published at a popular price.


_By FRANCES MARGARET FOX_


=THE LITTLE GIANT'S NEIGHBOURS=

A charming nature story of a "little giant" whose neighbors were the
creatures of the field and garden.


=FARMER BROWN AND THE BIRDS=

A little story which teaches children that the birds are man's best
friends.


=BETTY OF OLD MACKINAW=

A charming story of child life.


=BROTHER BILLY=

The story of Betty's brother, and some further adventures of Betty
herself.


=MOTHER NATURE'S LITTLE ONES=

Curious little sketches describing the early lifetime, or "childhood,"
of the little creatures out-of-doors.


=HOW CHRISTMAS CAME TO THE MULVANEYS=

A bright, lifelike little story of a family of poor children with an
unlimited capacity for fun and mischief.


=THE COUNTRY CHRISTMAS=

Miss Fox has vividly described the happy surprises that made the
occasion so memorable to the Mulvaneys, and the funny things the
children did in their new environment.


_By MISS MULOCK_


=THE LITTLE LAME PRINCE=

A delightful story of a little boy who has many adventures by means of
the magic gifts of his fairy godmother.


=ADVENTURES OF A BROWNIE=

The story of a household elf who torments the cook and gardener, but is
a constant joy and delight to the children who love and trust him.


=HIS LITTLE MOTHER=

Miss Mulock's short stories for children are a constant source of
delight to them, and "His Little Mother," in this new and attractive
dress, will be welcomed by hosts of youthful readers.


=LITTLE SUNSHINE'S HOLIDAY=

An attractive story of a summer outing. "Little Sunshine" is another
of those beautiful child-characters for which Miss Mulock is so justly
famous.


_By MARSHALL SAUNDERS_


=FOR HIS COUNTRY=

A sweet and graceful story of a little boy who loved his country;
written with that charm which has endeared Miss Saunders to hosts of
readers.


=NITA, THE STORY OF AN IRISH SETTER=

In this touching little book, Miss Saunders shows how dear to her heart
are all of God's dumb creatures.


=ALPATOK, THE STORY OF AN ESKIMO DOG=

Alpatok, an Eskimo dog from the far north, was stolen from his master
and left to starve in a strange city, but was befriended and cared for,
until he was able to return to his owner.


_By WILL ALLEN DROMGOOLE_


=THE FARRIER'S DOG AND HIS FELLOW=

This story, written by the gifted young Southern woman, will appeal to
all that is best in the natures of the many admirers of her graceful
and piquant style.


=THE FORTUNES OF THE FELLOW=

Those who read and enjoyed the pathos and charm of "The Farrier's Dog
and His Fellow" will welcome the further account of the adventures of
Baydaw and the Fellow at the home of the kindly smith.


=THE BEST OF FRIENDS=

This continues the experiences of the Farrier's dog and his Fellow,
written in Mr. Dromgoole's well-known charming style.


=DOWN IN DIXIE=

A fascinating story for boys and girls, of a family of Alabama children
who move to Florida and grow up in the South.


_By MARIAN W. WILDMAN_


=LOYALTY ISLAND=

An account of the adventures of four children and their pet dog on
an island, and how they cleared their brother from the suspicion of
dishonesty.


=THEODORE AND THEODORA=

This is a story of the exploits and mishaps of two mischievous twins,
and continues the adventures of the interesting group of children in
"Loyalty Island."

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes:

Page 13, "dahaheah" changed to "dahabeah" (captain of a dahabeah)

Page 37, repeated word "in" removed from text (exercises in in his
school)

Page 41, "fete" changed to "fête" (great religious fête)






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Nabul, Our Little Egyptian Cousin, by 
Blanche McManus

